2   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




Table of Contents

          Introduction                                     3
          a) What is a design system?                      4
          b) Why this guide?                               5
          c) What can you expect?                          5
          d) Who is this guide for?                        5

          Where design systems
          are today                                        6

          Benchmarking your
          design system                                    9
          a) Nascent                                       12
          b) Basic                                         14
          c) Integrated                                    17
          d) Distributed                                   20
          e) Optimized                                     22

          Moving your design
          system into the future                           23

          Conclusion                                       24
 3      INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




 Introduction
                Digital product design and development is
                experiencing its own industrial revolution. Decades
                after IBM introduced the first commercial software in
                the late 1960’s, the majority is still hand-crafted.
                Each button, form field, and navigational component
                is often custom designed and coded. It’s as if every
                time a car was manufactured, each of the thousands
                of parts was designed and engineered individually,
                without any of the interchangeability and
                interoperability a modern assembly line affords.

                This methodology is, of course, massively inefficient,
                and creates inconsistent user experiences. Design
                systems offer a solution. Through a library of visual
                guidelines, reusable components, and necessary
                documentation, they make the creation of new
                products efficient and cohesive.1


1. Adapted from Nathan Curtis’s definition: https://medium.com/eightshapes-llc/defining-design-systems-6dd4b03e0ff6
4   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




What is a Design System?
A collection of                     Used by both            Controlled with

Foundations                         Design                  Guidelines
Basic building blocks               Assets created and      Written usage, rules
Colors                              used in a design tool   and recommendations
Typography                          Design Files            Accessibility
Icons                               Libraries               Examples
Spacing                             Styles                  Patterns
Grids                                                       Principles
Motion                                                      Usage
                                                            Voice & Tone

Components                          Engineering             Governance
Reusable UI elements                Implementation in       Adoption, maintenance
made with foundations               front-end development   processes, analysis
Buttons                             APIs                    Communication
Cards                               Components              Contribution
Input fields                        Tokens                  Incentives
Pagination                                                  Measurement
Tabs                                                        Reviews
Tables                                                      Versions




        As changes in markets, regulations, and user behavior
        happen more rapidly, the need for more efficient design
        processes (and tools) becomes even more urgent.
        Product teams with mature design systems have the
        ability to pivot quickly, transforming the entire user
        experience in days, rather than weeks or months. That
        makes the entire enterprise more resilient–and
5   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




       ultimately more successful–than organizations that lack
       the speed a healthy design system imparts.

       Our team at InVision created this guide to share our point
       of view on where the design system industry is today,
       based on research and interactions with customers.
       Here’s what you can expect:

       We’ll discuss a framework that our team has developed to
       help organizations benchmark the progress of their
       design systems, which you can use to assess your own
       team’s progress.

       Based on your self-assessment, we'll provide concrete
       recommendations to help scale your design system
       across your product teams.

       We’ll call out some ways that InVision’s Design System
       Manager can help your team create, document, and
       evolve your design system.

       We’ll finish by discussing why the teams creating design
       systems find them so challenging, often facing a feeling
       of “imposter syndrome,” and what you can do to move
       past that.

       This guide is for design system makers who are looking
       for resources to help them advance. It’s also for design
       leaders who are looking to benchmark their own design
       system against the industry and invest in leveling up their
       teams to create more robust, efficient systems.
  6   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




 Where design systems are today.
           We’ve known for a number of years now that design
           systems are critical to building digital products
           efficiently at scale, but when looked at across industries,
           there is still much progress to be made. In 2019, InVision
           released a report called The New Design Frontier, which
           surveyed thousands of companies to explore the
           relationship between design practices and business
           performance. From the survey data, we created a design
           maturity model which helps companies understand
           what differentiates high-performing design
           organizations, with the ultimate goal of providing the
           tools to evolve and improve their bottom line. The
           majority of the companies surveyed (41%) were still at
           the lowest maturity level (the “Producers”) while only 5%
           where at the highest level (the “Visionaries”).




 Design maturity levels from The New Design Frontier



      41%                 21%                    21%              12%              5.5%

Level 1              Level 2                Level 3            Level 4          Level 5

Producers            Connectors             Architects         Scientists       Visionaries
Design is            Design is what         Design is a        Design is a      Design is a business
what happens         happens in a           standardized       hypothesis and   strategy
on screens           workshop               scalable process   an experiment
7   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




         It was clear from the data that the higher performing,
         more mature teams invested heavily in design
         systems. For example, 50% of companies in the
         Visionary category had dedicated design systems
         teams, versus only 16% of Producers.




         A large majority of respondents were investing in related
         activities, if not an actual system. Across all levels of
         maturity, on average 81% of companies surveyed were
         using style guides, patterns, or a design language system
         of some kind. For the Visionaries, this was as high as 96%.
         In contrast, on average only 58% of companies surveyed
         were using an online tool that documents the design
         system and is accessible to others (and Visionaries only
         bumped that up by 1% to 59%).
8   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




         Luckily, from our one-to-one interactions with
         customers out in the field, we’re learning that the
         situation appears to be evolving rapidly. Several large
         banking institutions, in an industry that our data
         indicated is on average at a lower level of design
         maturity, have been using DSM as a tool to
         document their design system and keep it
         accessible to others. And large media organizations
         like ViacomCBS are using DSM to maintain a shared
         language between designers and developers.



                     “ InVision DSM is the
                       perfect home for any
                       organization’s design
                       system. It provides a
                       space to create and
                       maintain a shared
                       visual language
                       between designers and
                       developers at scale.”
                         Jason Grotrian
                         Senior Director of Product Design
                         ViacomCBS
9   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




         While the picture isn’t entirely rosy, most teams are
         dealing with the same hurdles between design maturity
         levels, such as disagreement on standards and a highly-
         fragmented workflow between developers and
         designers. And although there’s a lot written about the
         different approaches to building design systems,
         including InVision’s Design Systems Handbook, there
         isn’t much discussion about how they evolve over time.
         Because of this, even teams with high maturity wrestle
         with the feeling that other companies have more
         efficient systems, in a kind of organizational “imposter
         syndrome.” Teams need a clear way to assess where
         they stand now, and how to level up.


Benchmarking your design system.
         Recently at many companies, the conversation has
         shifted from “why do we need a design system?” to
         “how do we build and/or scale our own?” Through our
         research and from speaking with customers, we can
         confidently say that in order to answer that question,
         you need a good understanding of where your
         design system currently stands. We find it works
         best through the context of a hierarchy of needs.

         In 1943, the psychologist Abraham Maslow wrote a
         paper proposing that all humans are motivated by a
10   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          series of needs, and that each level of the needs
          must be met in order to progress to the next level.




          From our research we’ve established a hypothesis that
          there is a similar hierarchy for design systems, where
          teams need to build a foundation before they can advance
          to more integrated workflows higher up in the hierarchy.
          Attempting to evolve your systems without a strong
          foundation can lead to frustration and failure, an experience
          we’ve heard echoed from many of our customers. Too
          often, teams put months or years of work into their design
          system, “launch” it, and then wonder why no one uses it. If
11   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          they skip steps (e.g. try to scale a system without first
          doing the necessary discovery work and audits), then
          the design system won’t gain traction and will ultimately
          fail. We’re excited to share our framework, and the
          accompanying recommendations, in the hopes you
          avoid that outcome.




          We’ll assume that your team has already begun the
          work to discover and learn about design systems
          (you’re reading this guide, right?) So to understand
          better where you sit, let’s dive deeper into the other
          five benchmarks for design systems teams, talk about
          some of their associated behaviors, and offer some
          resources for upleveling your team:
12   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          Nascent            Basic         Integrated       Distributed   Optimized


          Nascent teams are just getting started with their
          design systems and haven’t yet standardized their
          approach. They may still be doing some research, but
          they’ve begun to put a plan in place to start creating
          and rolling out their own system.

          Here’s a checklist to see if you’re at a Nascent stage:

                 You've begun to evaluate the current state of your
                 design and code assets by auditing your products.

                 You've created a rough plan for getting your first
                 design system in place.

                 You've identified a starter team model to staff your
                 design system, for example with a guild (see video
                 below), or by following Nathan Curtis’s approach to
                 building a multidisciplinary team.

                 You're working to set up and deploy tools to
                 manage and use your design system.




                                                            Watch how
                                                            LinkedIn uses
                                                            Guilds to bring
                                                            together their
                                                            Design system.
  13        INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




                 If you’re at this stage, here are some resources that



RESOURCES
                 can help your team level up from Nascent to Basic:

                 Find the right team model.
                 If you haven’t yet staffed your team, or it’s still a work-
                 in-progress, you can learn about the different models
                 for design systems teams in Chapter 2 of the Design
                 Systems Handbook.

                 Audit your patterns.
                 Learn how to audit your existing patterns and create a
                 visual inventory in Chapter two of the Design Systems
                 Handbook.

                 Create naming conventions.
                 Learn the best practices for defining your design
                 system taxonomy.




                How DSM Can Help.
                If you’re just getting started, InVision Design System Manager
                (DSM) can give a big head-start to your process. A major news
                organization recently used DSM to stand up a secure design
                system documentation site within hours, customizing it to their
                unique needs, work that has taken other teams months to do. If
                you’re interested in learning more about creating custom
                documentation in DSM, you can read more on our support site, or
                talk to one of our experts today.
14   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          Nascent             Basic         Integrated      Distributed   Optimized


          At the Basic stage, teams have begun to build components
          and usage guidelines for designers or developers, but
          have not yet integrated them cross-functionally so that
          both teams are using a shared language. Many teams at
          this stage also have an online tool, like DSM, that
          documents the design system and is accessible to other
          parts of the organization.

          Here’s a checklist to see if you’re at a Basic stage:

                 Your developer teams and/or your design teams
                 have built components and usage guidelines, but
                 they aren’t integrated with each other.

                 You've created a basic UI kit in a design tool to
                 share reusable design assets.

                 You have an initial definition for stylistic elements
                 such as colors, typography, and icons that are part
                 of your design system.

                 You've started to iterate on your system based on
                 team feedback.

                 You're starting to evolve governance practices to
                 understand what's working and not working with
                 the system.
      15    INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




                                                Rethinking
                                                designer-developer
                                                collaboration



                 Brad Frost and Dan Mall discuss how design systems can be a middle
                 ground for designers and developers.




                 To level up to the next stage, it’s important to start building



RESOURCES
                 a shared language between designers and developers.
                 Here are some resources that can help your team:

                 Iterate on your audit to build shared language.
                 You may have already done a basic audit in the Nascent
                 stage, but you can uplevel your audit with an InVision
                 Board, calling out the names and descriptions of each
                 section as the beginning of a shared language. As part of
                 this practice, discuss inconsistencies, get design and
                 dev involved, and see where language diverges.

                 Establish your purpose and principles.
                 Design systems pioneer Nathan Curtis makes a good
                 argument for creating design system principles. At the
                 highest level, this allows for a shared language and set of
                 criteria that all elements should adhere to. When making
                 decisions about what should/shouldn't be included in the
                 system, you now have a shared vocabulary to facilitate
16   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          decision-making. An extensive set of example design
          system principles can be found at Design Principles FTW.

          Create a contribution guide.
          A contribution guide allows people across the
          organization to have a clear set of requirements in order
          to contribute back to the system, which will help prevent
          duplicated effort (e.g. recreating components that
          already exist) and can also help ensure additions to the
          system are reusable, accessible, etc. In this article on
          Inside Design, you can see how Apartments.com used a
          simple google survey for team contributions.




          How DSM Can Help.
          With InVision DSM, designers can quickly access the most up-to-
          date design assets and versions right in Sketch while using native
          design libraries. They also have easy access to rich
          documentation guidelines on how to use the system.

          Design systems teams can maintain design libraries in just one
          place, and seamlessly publish updates to DSM. Teams can share
          and showcase branded design system documentation that is
          flexible and easy to maintain from the web.

          In conjunction with the DSM toolset, our consulting and training
          teams can help you level up as part of a complete package. If
          you’re interested in learning more, you can talk to one of our DSM
          experts today.
17   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          Nascent            Basic         Integrated       Distributed   Optimized


          Teams that are Integrated have established processes to
          keep design and coded libraries aligned and up to date (e.g.
          sets of symbols in a Sketch file are mapped to components
          in code). The team also has processes to keep design
          assets, coded assets, and documentation aligned, and so
          they have a regular release cadence to version their design
          system that both designers and developers can use.
          Additionally, they may have integrations between designer
          and developer tools like JIRA, Inspect, or others. There
          likely is a lot of manual maintenance and communication to
          keep things running smoothly at this stage.

          Here’s a checklist to see if you’re at the Integrated stage:

                 Your design system components reflect both
                 design assets and coded components.

                 You've established processes to update both
                 design and coded assets once an update is made.

                 You've defined a checklist or rules necessary to
                 evolve and contribute to the design system.

                 You've established communication processes to
                 inform your team about design system updates.

                 You have started to implement processes that
                 identify conflicts between design and code.
    18      INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




                 To level up to being a Distributed team, you need to have
                 processes in place that will help you start to scale your
                 design system across multiple product teams,
                 geographies, and platforms. You’ll also need to have a
                 more robust versioning mechanism in place, and
                 processes that help you enable contributions back to the
                 system. Here are some resources to help your team:




                 Define a decision tree or component


RESOURCES
                 lifecycle process.
                 As author Brad Frost writes, “You can have a
                 comprehensive design system that contains a slew of
                 well-structured components, thorough documentation,
                 thoughtful guidelines, and a well-considered design
                 language. But if a design system user can’t get done what
                 they’re trying to get done, the whole system risks
                 obsolescence.” Coming up with a system of governance
                 and decision tree, as Frost shares in the above article (or in
                 this example from Cap Watkins), can help users
                 understand what to do when they get stuck.

                 Upgrade to a tiered system
                 (or system of systems).
                 As design systems scale across an organization, it is often
                 necessary to use a tiered approach (or system of systems).
                 Nathan Curtis of Eightshapes outlines this approach, which
19   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          includes developing a “core,” relevant to the entire
          organization, and tiers within business units below it.

          Establish design tokens.
          Design tokens keep code in sync as design standards
          change and help your team focus less on coordination and
          more on building experiences your users love. Watch Brad
          Frost, Dan Mall, and Josh Clark discuss how they
          approach design tokens, or take a look at Amazon’s Style
          Dictionary to see them in action.




          How DSM Can Help.
          InVision DSM can help Integrated design teams level up to
          Distributed teams in three key ways: First, through the creation of
          live, coded components (via a deep Storybook integration)
          mapped to design assets. Second, DSM offers a draft mode or
          "staging environment" to align design, code, and documentation
          before releasing a complete version of these elements as a
          bundled unit. Third, DSM offers integration with InVision’s Inspect
          product, where DSM components are surfaced right in the tool.
          This makes all the work of synchronizing designed and coded
          assets pay off, by reinforcing a shared language between
          designers and developers. If you’re interested in learning more,
          you can talk to one of our experts today.
20   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          Nascent            Basic         Integrated       Distributed   Optimized


          Distributed teams have scaled their design system assets
          across multiple product teams, sub-brands, and/or
          platforms. They have contribution processes in place for
          designers and developers to feel a sense of ownership over
          the design system.

          Here’s a checklist to see if you’re at a Distributed stage
          in your design system:

                 You've set up more than one design system to
                 reflect unique needs across your organization.

                 You have shared your design system publicly.

                 You have decentralized contributions to
                 democratize the evolution of the design system.

                 You've set up a governance model that identifies
                 whether elements belong in a core or sub-system.


          To graduate to Optimized, the final stage, your team will
          need to build custom workflows to eliminate manual work
          and keep design and code in sync. You’ll know how your
          design system is being used across both design and code,
          and you’ll have visibility into gaps within the system. Here
          are some resources to help:
    21      INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




                 Keep a pulse on your team model.


RESOURCES
                 Most design systems teams start with a centralized or
                 federated approach and evolve towards a hybrid or
                 cyclical model as they become more distributed, moving
                 towards being Optimized. Now is a good time to review
                 your team model to make sure it aligns with where you are
                 as an organization, as the most effective model will likely
                 change as the design system scales and becomes more
                 broadly adopted.

                 Continue evolving your people practices.
                 Design systems will only be effective if they are adopted by
                 the people that need to use them. Learn how the design
                 team at Etsy fostered collective ownership of their system.




                 How DSM Can Help.
                 If you’re at a Distributed stage, moving towards Optimized, DSM can
                 assist you today in a few critical areas, and will soon be even more
                 helpful. In DSM now, you can set roles and permissions to configure who
                 has viewing vs. editing rights. You can also set up a versioning workflow
                 to create holistic snapshots of your design/code assets and
                 documentation, view a change log to compare versions, and have the
                 ability to revert/switch versions on demand. Soon, you’ll be able to
                 manage design tokens (platform-agnostic variables that represent the
                 look and feel of your brand and product) directly in DSM. To learn more
                 about tokens, visit Salesforce’s Lightning Design System Design Tokens.
                 And if you’re interested in learning more, you can talk to one of our
                 experts today.
22   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




           Nascent            Basic         Integrated      Distributed   Optimized


          Optimized teams have automated workflows to keep
          design and code synchronized and up to date across
          multiple product teams, sub-brands, and/or platforms. They
          have analytics and reporting that provide insights into
          design system usage and adoption.

          Here’s a checklist to see if you’re at an Optimized stage
          in your design system:

                 You've built custom workflows that eliminate
                 manual work to keep design and code in sync.

                 You know how your design system is being used
                 across both design and code.

                 You have visibility into gaps within the design
                 system.

                 You've set up incentives that encourage design
                 system evolution (such as finding ways to make
                 your design system a living entity through
                 continual contributions from designers and
                 developers)–this might be incentivized by things
                 like stickers, digital leaderboards, or tying
                 contribution activity to performance reviews.
23   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




          If you’re here, congratulations! Only a very small subset of
          the teams with advanced design systems have achieved
          this stage of performance. And even if you are here, the
          work isn’t over. InVision gets to spend a lot of time with
          large tech companies that are at the bleeding edge of
          design systems technology and would be ranked as
          Optimized. But even these companies have insecurities
          about their design system.

          The truth is, building, deploying, and maintaining a design
          system is extremely hard, and because of the rate of
          change in the space, even organizations that have access
          to the most high performing teams and technology
          struggle at times. But it is also one of the best places to
          demonstrate the value of the work that your team does to
          your organization.



Moving your design system into
the future.
          One of the key benefits of evolving your design system is
          that it will allow your design teams to focus on efforts that
          directly impact the business. If you’re no longer focused
          on repetitive UI design tasks, your team can spend more
          time with customers and build better experiences for
          them. If you’re able to demonstrate the product
          development efficiency that comes along with a design
24   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




           system—some teams see gains of 25% or more—you’ll
          have an opportunity to engage more with business leaders
          and have a seat at the table for strategic decisions. This
          creates a virtuous cycle—as a design team you’ll have a
          chance to not only continue to evolve your design system,
          but uplevel the design maturity of your whole organization.
          It’s an exciting opportunity, and now is a great time to
          leverage the technology, tools, and community knowledge
          to move your design system forward.

          Whatever stage you’re at, we have your back.
          With InVision DSM, we can help you connect
          design and code so teams can work smarter,
          faster, and more in sync. Reach out any time to
          our experts to help you move your design
          system into the future




                      Experience the new
                      Design System Manager.
25   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BENCHMARKING YOUR DESIGN SYSTEM




Contributors
                  Eli Woolery, Design Stories Director
                  Researching and sharing best practices to guide digital
                  product design. Co-host of the Design Better Podcast.

                  Marci Pasenello, Director of Product
                  Product lead for InVision’s DSM who’s been experimenting
                  with the product development process for many years.

                  Nick Hahn, Director, Design Systems Consultant
                  Excitedly helping teams evolve their designs systems and
                  bring forth the design system revolution as Director of Design
                  Systems Consulting.

                  Micky Teng, Director of Product Marketing
                  Marketing InVision DSM to help customers solve key design
                  system challenges.

                  Rebecca Kerr, Principal Conversation & Content Strategist
                  Exploring major product team transformations through
                  interviews, stories, and conversation.

                  Catriona Shedd, Director of Product Design
                  Design lead for InVision DSM and design system advocate
                  specializing in helping organizations improve design system
                  workflows to increase adoption, foster collaboration, and
                  elevate the efficacy of design systems at scale.

                  Zoë Adelman, Design System Consultant
                  Helping InVision customers create and evolve design
                  systems for scale.

                  Ehud Halberstam, Product Manager
                  Working on InVision’s DSM and these days focusing on
                  developer-designer collaboration.
