                              No



                              31


Yesenia Perez-Cruz



EXPRESSIVE
DESIGN SYSTEMS
Foreword by Alla Kholmatova
MORE FROM A BOOK APART

Resilient Management
Lara Hogan

Everyday Information Architecture
Lisa Maria Marquis

Progressive Web Apps
Jason Grigsby

Flexible Typesetting
Tim Brown

Going Offline
Jeremy Keith

Conversational Design
Erika Hall

The New CSS Layout
Rachel Andrew

Accessibility for Everyone
Laura Kalbag

Practical Design Discovery
Dan Brown

Demystifying Public Speaking
Lara Hogan


Visit abookapart.com for our full list of titles.
Copyright © 2019 Yesenia Perez-Cruz
All rights reserved

Publisher: Jeffrey Zeldman
Designer: Jason Santa Maria
Executive director: Katel LeDû
Lead editor: Lisa Maria Marquis
Editors: Caren Litherland, Sally Kerrigan
Book producer: Ron Bilodeau

ISBN: 978-1-937557-85-0

A Book Apart
New York, New York
http://abookapart.com
TABLE OF CONTENTS

    1 |   Introduction


  7 | Purpose and Principles
          Chapter 1




 21 | The Process Behind the System
          Chapter 2




 50 | Communicating Your Brand
          Chapter 3




 75 | Making Room for Variation
          Chapter 4




102 | Managing Design Systems
          Chapter 5



  117 |   Conclusion

  119 |   Acknowledgments

  120 |   Resources

  123 |   References

  125 |   Index
FOREWORD
It’s never been easier to create a functional design sys-
tem. New tools, widespread support, and plenty of available
resources mean that most of us can have one up and running
relatively fast.
   But there’s a lingering problem. After so carefully crafting
kits, parts, and components, many teams find that their systems
aren’t used as intended, or—even worse—aren’t used at all.
   We talk a lot about design systems, but that doesn’t always
mean we understand them at a deeper level. How does a sys-
tem serve the brand and the purpose of the products we build?
What do design patterns communicate? How do they relate to
each other? How does changing a pattern alter the perception
of the brand as a whole?
   Yesenia answers those questions and many more. She
explains how to grasp a brand’s ethos, then demonstrates,
through real-world examples, how design intent manifests in
the smallest details—leading to systems that are as expressive
as they are effective.
   To make design systems more purposeful, creative, and
inclusive, we need a compelling conceptual framework, a way
of grasping the systemic expression of the brand alongside day-
to-day patterns and components. Yesenia teaches us practical
techniques and thoughtful strategies that we can put to work
right away—so we can see both the forest and the trees.

—Alla Kholmatova
INTRODUCTION
Without a unified language, all products drift
toward inconsistency.
   Teams don’t choose to be inconsistent. The drift goes hand
in hand with scale. Today, technology companies have to solve
increasingly complex user problems across a variety of chan-
nels, like apps and websites. As companies grow, it’s common
for teams to form around discrete areas of a product, like the
homepage, account management, and search. These individual
teams, in an effort to work quickly, develop their own standards
for quality—which leads to a weakened design vision.
   You might not notice this sprawl until you look at all of your
products together. Andreas Pihlström from Pinterest explains:

   Over the years, the designs for our website, apps and marketing
   had all begun to drift, so they no longer felt like they had the
   same personality. A number of new features had also been
   added without a clear vision to how they fit into the overall
   design, so the interface had begun to feel cluttered and hard
   to understand. There was no visual hierarchy or system to
   help you understand what was important when you looked at
   any given page. As a result, all the inspiring ideas people save
   on Pinterest — by far the most important part of our experi-
   ence — were getting lost. (http://bkaprt.com/eds/00-01/)

   As Pihlström notes, the problem with this drift isn’t that
products look different (though that’s part of it). The larger issue
is what this inconsistency represents (and exacerbates): a lack
of alignment and communication across teams, a diluted brand
voice, and a disjointed user experience.


Modular building
To address the problem with drift, many companies try to
design and build with reusable components. This modular
way of building is commonly referred to as a pattern library, a
style guide, or a design system. These names are often used inter-
changeably, but they refer to different things:



                                                    Introduction       1
    • A pattern (or component) library is a collection of reusable
      user interface (UI) building blocks that are shared across
      teams and assembled to build products.
    • A style guide is documentation, often on a website, that
      contains your company’s brand language, your compo-
      nent library, and rationale about how these components
      should be used.
    • A design system is the broadest of these tools, and explains
      how a team should create products. It encompasses the
      pattern library and style guide, but also includes underlying
      design principles, rules, and guidelines to help teams create
      cohesive experiences.

       Style guides and pattern libraries are the most tangible out-
    puts of a design system. Because of this, many teams begin their
    systems by focusing on UI components. But components alone
    won’t eliminate inconsistency.


    What does your team need?
    Design systems can take many forms, depending on the size
    of your team. If your team is small and your primary goal is to
    reduce inefficiencies in the design and development process,
    then a small set of documented components and patterns might
    be all you need.
       At the other end of the spectrum, if you aspire to build a
    UI framework that definitively guides how a web application
    should be built, and that thousands of teams will use, then you
    need a more generic solution. Your patterns need to be gener-
    alized and open-ended so the product teams that implement
    the patterns in their work can customize them as they see fit.
       However, if your goal is to improve the design and user expe-
    rience of your products by enabling harmonious, integrated
    design and development work, then you need more. A pattern
    library alone can’t create alignment across multiple product
    teams that are all working toward their own objectives. And
    a generic design system isn’t going to focus on the common
    ingredients that make your organization and products special.




2   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   Throughout this book, I’m going to refer to the design sys-
tems team and the product teams. The design systems team is
responsible for creating and maintaining the design system. The
product teams are focused on specific products or features. In
some organizations, that split might not exist. You may have the
same people creating the system and using it to create products.


Design system principles
When you create a design system, you’re not just creating
reusable patterns—you’re operationalizing how your company
approaches design. Your team’s design system needs to be
highly specific to your team’s needs. If you’re creating a design
system for the first time, here are some guiding principles as
you start your journey—adapt them as needed to fit your team:

• Design systems are intentional. A design system necessarily
  means being deliberate about how you approach creating,
  building, and maintaining the user experience of your prod-
  uct. What new habits do you want to introduce that can help
  your team build higher-quality products?
• Your team is already working in systems. Whether your
  team has a documented pattern library or not, it uses sys-
  tems. Over time, teams develop a shared understanding
  about how they should work. Often, these systems live in
  people’s heads. A good way to start a design system is by
  identifying systems that you already have in place that are
  working well and documenting them. Then, critically eval-
  uate your findings to understand which systems you want
  to change.
• Strong systems are collaborative. A design system should
  be cross-disciplinary and should represent how your teams
  build products together.
• The human aspects of your system are more complicated
  than the tooling. Many of the conversations around design
  systems focus on tooling problems. “Our lives will change
  once we have this Sketch UI kit that maps directly to code.”
  I get it. Tooling feels tangible. The problem is there are
  many intangible parts of a system that need to be defined



                                                Introduction        3
       before we can enable harmonious, integrated, and successful
       product development. Spend more time on creating a shared
       language and less time on tools.


    What makes a design system expressive?
    If you’re reading this book, you’ve probably already heard about
    the benefits of creating a design system:

    • Faster builds, through reusable components and
      shared rationale
    • Better products, through more cohesive user experiences
      and a consistent design language
    • Improved maintenance and scalability, through the reduc-
      tion of design and technical debt
    • Stronger focus for product teams, through tackling common
      problems so teams can concentrate on solving user needs

       In short, a design system can take on the easier, more repeti-
    tive problems so products can solve hard problems more readily.
       Despite these benefits, some designers express frustration
    with design systems:

    • Rigid systems that stifle creativity
    • Monotonous systems that lead to generic, cookie-cut-
      ter experiences
    • Overly specific systems that can’t be adapted to
      enough use cases
    • Complicated, unexplained, and unsupported systems that
      lead to fragmented user experiences

       In this book, I’m going to describe ways you can create a
    design system that makes your products feel cohesive across
    multiple touchpoints while still leaving room for meaningful




4   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
experimentation and divergence. This is what I call an expressive
design system.
   Expressive design systems have three defining qualities:

• They are purpose-built. Your design system should align
  your team on a shared vision of your brand’s voice, visual
  style, and behavior.
• They support a range of expression. Your design system
  should enable meaningful experimentation and divergence
  while still retaining the spirit of the system writ large.
• They inspire use. Designers should feel motivated to solve
  complex problems with their design system, rather than
  feeling constrained by it.


What this book will cover
This book is not a step-by-step guide to building a design sys-
tem. The purpose of this book is to help you integrate brand
expression and range within an existing design system. Work-
ing on a design system isn’t a linear process. You need to con-
tinually zoom in and out, jumping between small elements and
your entire product ecosystem. So, you’ll find that this book
isn’t written in a linear fashion. Feel free to jump around and
read things in any order you please.

• In Chapter 1, we’ll discuss how to set a purpose statement
  for a design system that will guide your work. Then we’ll
  look at how to establish principles that will align teams as
  they make design decisions.
• In Chapter 2, we’ll look at the process behind the system.
  How can you get a better understanding of your organization
  so you can make the most impact with a design system?
  After that, how do you go about unifying, consolidating, and
  documenting elements?
• Chapter 3 focuses on how to communicate your brand
  through a system. We’ll look at how to define your design
  language so that your brand’s voice feels harmonious
  throughout your products.




                                                Introduction        5
    • Chapter 4 is about how to build in opportunities for varia-
      tion. A huge part of creating an expressive design system is
      knowing when to allow for flexibility and experimentation.
      We’ll discuss some frameworks you can use to decide when,
      where, and how to allow for variation.
    • Chapter 5 reflects on managing design systems. In order
      to keep our design systems purposeful and expressive, we
      need to evolve them from real-world use cases. We’ll discuss
      how clear governance and contribution models will keep
      our systems alive.

       By the end of this book, I hope you’ll believe there’s plenty
    of space for creativity within design systems.
       Let’s get started!




6   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
1        PURPOSE AND
         PRINCIPLES
In the 1960s, the NYC subway system was a maze of mis-
matched signage and broken wayfinding. With no clear uni-
fying language, travelers were getting lost. The New York City
Transit Authority hired Massimo Vignelli and Bob Noorda to
design a solution.
    Vignelli and Noorda spent several years underground, watch-
ing the flow of passengers getting on and off trains and moving
through stations. They studied people’s habits. What paths did
people take? When and where did they look for information?
    The resulting New York City Transit Authority Graphics Stan-
dards Manual (Fig 1.1) was an impressively detailed set of spec-
ifications for designing and constructing signage, guided by
strong user-centered principles (Fig 1.2).
    The level of detail in this 185-page manual is impressive, and
the principles that guided the work are even more so. Through
the unified design language, Vignelli and Noorda aimed to help
orient people within the subway environment, so they could
get to where they needed to go, quickly.
    Design systems create better products when they provide
both unity and cohesion. Unity means that things feel com-
plete—all of your brand elements work together as one.



                                     P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   7
Fig 1.1: Similar to digital design systems, this page from the New York City Transit Authority
Graphics Standards Manual explains how to use smaller components, like arrows and
directional information, to construct signs for a range of situations. Photograph from the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.




Fig 1.2: A diagram explaining the sequence of information for a subway rider. The diagram
includes this guiding principle: “The subway rider should be given only information at
the point of decision. Never before. Never after.” Photograph from the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.




      8    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   But unity doesn’t guarantee cohesion. Cohesion is the quality
that makes your user interfaces easy to understand across the
experience. Vignelli and Noorda created unity with a consis-
tent visual language for signage, but they enabled cohesive
experiences by defining where that signage should be placed
for commuters to receive the right information at the right
time. If they had only addressed the visual inconsistencies in
the signage without also considering the behaviors of subway
riders, people would still be getting lost underground.
   Unity is easier to accomplish than cohesion, because it can
be solved by creating tools: style guides, brand languages,
shared components. Cohesion is more complicated because it
can’t be solved with a tool alone. In order to create products
that feel cohesive, you need to align teams around a shared
definition of how your brand should look, feel, and behave.
That’s why it’s important to set a purpose and establish
principles.



SETTING A PURPOSE
If you’re proposing a design system at your company, you
may get resistance. Why is a design system worth the effort?
Why would we take time away from shipping product features
to create a system? Busy teams pushing on their individual
product roadmaps may not understand (or care) about why
creating a design system will help them be more efficient. If
you can demonstrate the value that a design system will have
for your internal team and your end users, then you improve
your chances of getting buy-in.
   Design systems are all about alignment. Early on, you need
to align your team around why a design system matters. You can
do this by defining a purpose statement for your design system.


Finding your purpose statement
Your purpose statement describes what your team is trying to
achieve with the design system. It answers four questions:




                                    P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   9
     • What is the goal for our design system?
     • Why is that goal important?
     • How will the design system help us?
     • Who is the design system for?

       Imagine your organization answers those questions like this:

     • What is the goal? Our design system will free up more time
       for innovation and creativity.
     • Why is it important? If we don’t increase our innovation,
       our product could grow stagnant and be surpassed by a
       competitor.
     • How will it help us? By resolving common, recurring situ-
       ations with repeatable patterns so product teams can focus
       on new problems.
     • Who is it for? Our internal product teams.

        This purpose statement is all about driving innovation. The
     resulting design system might focus on tooling that would allow
     teams to rapidly prototype. You would be able to measure the
     design system’s success if the products grew more innovative
     over time.
        Here’s another way to answer those questions:

     • What is the goal? Our design system will make the quality
       of our products better for our audiences.
     • Why is it important? If our audiences are met with confus-
       ing, inconsistent workflows, we’ll lose their trust.
     • How will it help us? By unifying the people that are cre-
       ating our products through shared tools, guidelines, and
       principles.
     • Who is it for? Our internal product teams, in service of
       our audiences.

        This purpose statement is more focused on improving the
     user experience than on innovation. The resulting design sys-
     tem would also focus more on aligning teams, encouraging
     people to talk and share internally. You would know if this
     design system was successful by doing usability testing before



10   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
and after it was implemented to see if user experiences felt
more cohesive.
   To find your purpose statement, bring key stakeholders
together to answer these four key questions, and then discuss
the results as a group. You may find that while there’s agreement
that a design system is important, there’s disagreement on the
goal or why it’s important. Getting aligned on exactly what you
want to accomplish—and how you’ll know you’ve succeeded—
will set the design system on the right path from the beginning.
   Defining your purpose statement up front helps you priori-
tize and make decisions later on. If you have to choose between
building an average experience that only uses reusable compo-
nents or an excellent experience that requires new or adjusted
components, how will you decide?
   The best way to answer these questions is to listen to
your users.


Listening to users
Like Vignelli and Noorda, we need to go underground and
pay attention to user needs and behaviors. Successful design
systems need to serve many audiences: designers, developers,
content strategists, products managers, and, of course, end
users. Interviewing these users will help you set a purpose.
   Talking to the people who will be using the design system
you’re creating is key to making a design system they will actu-
ally use. The biggest thing you can gain from this is finding out
what they need and what to focus your efforts on.
   Set up some interviews with the users of your design system.
Be sure to talk to people from different disciplines, as well as
people with different levels of experience.
   Uncover problems:

• What are their biggest pain points?
• Where are they currently duplicating their efforts in ineffi-
  cient ways?
• Where is communication between designers and engineers
  starting to break down?




                                     P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   11
       Uncover goals:

     • What would a design system help them achieve?
     • What information do they need from a style guide?
     • How would they want this information presented?
     • What rationale would they need in order to trust the infor-
       mation in a style guide?

         These questions are very tool-focused. They’ll help you
     understand how tools like component libraries and style guides
     can make a team’s work more efficient.
         But they won’t help you understand how a design system
     can help improve alignment and collaboration. To understand
     this, you need to dig into how teams are currently working.
     Even if your team doesn’t have a documented style guide, it has
     systems. These systems are the habits teams develop over time.
     It’s important to dig into these questions as well.

     • How are different disciplines currently collaborating?
     • How do teams define quality?
     • How do teams know if they’re aligned?
     • How do teams define good design?
     • How do you know if work is ready to ship?
     • What resources and documentation already exist?

        These questions will give you a baseline understanding about
     how aligned your team currently is. If people have inconsistent
     definitions of good design, for example, that misalignment is
     probably reflected in your products.
        It’s also important to understand how your design system
     will benefit your product’s customers. In Chapter 2, we’ll talk
     about how to create a map of your ecosystem to help you
     identify how to prioritize your work in a way that will help
     end users.




12   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
CREATING ALIGNING PRINCIPLES
Designing products requires making hundreds of decisions
quickly. A small team can rely on tribal knowledge to ensure
that those decisions are consistent. But as teams grow, the
ability to make aligned, consistent decisions becomes harder.
Your products won’t feel cohesive if everyone is working from
a different definition of “quality.” To address this, we need to
create a shared framework for decision-making. These are our
design principles.
   Design principles are a set of guidelines your team can follow
throughout their design process in order to create more aligned
experiences. Well-written design principles create alignment,
speed up decision-making, and increase the quality of your
team’s output. While shared components and visual styles help
teams align on how their brand should look, shared principles
help teams align on how their brand should behave.


Effective principles
Teams can sink a lot of time into creating principles, perhaps
because the idea of a “principle” feels permanent. You won’t
be carving these principles into stone! Principles can and do
change. What’s most important is that your principles reflect
the purpose you’ve defined and the values you want to embody
today, and that everyone building and using the design system
is aligned on them. The process of creating your principles
should be inclusive and shaped by all of the people you hope
will adopt those principles.
   Effective design principles should be:

1. Specific and opinionated
2. Grown from within your team
3. Decision-making tools


Specific and opinionated
There are two types of principles: universal and specific (http://
bkaprt.com/eds/01-01/). Universal principles are broadly appli-



                                     P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   13
     cable and can be used for all kinds of design. “Delightful” and
     “simple” are examples of universal principles. By contrast, spe-
     cific principles map directly to a specific product and are used to
     align teams around a common language. To create expressive
     design systems, you need specific principles.
         Have you ever gone into a design critique and heard the
     feedback, “But that doesn’t feel like us?” The point of creating
     principles is to codify what it means to create a product that
     feels like your company. What decisions would your company
     make that other companies wouldn’t?
         These principles should not only be specific to your product,
     but should also embody the qualities you want your user expe-
     rience to have. Take, for example, Intercom’s principle of
     “Designing conversations, not transactions” (http://bkaprt.com/
     eds/01-02/). A transaction feels cold, robotic, formal—like sub-
     mitting a help request into a void. A conversation, on the other
     hand, feels warm, human, helpful. This principle starts to tell
     me how the product should feel (Fig 1.3), and steers designers
     on that team away from building experiences that feel formal
     and disconnected from their users.


     Grown from within your team
     Principles should feel like they’re aligned with your team val-
     ues and your product’s purpose, not unfamiliar to them. Start
     with principles that are already baked into your culture and
     how your team works. You want your principles to feel true to
     your organization.
        As designer Mark Boulton describes it:

        All you do is be mindful of when the team repeats design
        desires. This could be several members of the team say the
        same thing in a slightly different way, or that you keep cir-
        cling around and around a problem but struggle to articulate
        it. By being mindful at all times to this a team can quickly
        pull together principles that are derived from doing the work
        on their particular problem rather than principles which are
        imposed on the work. (http://bkaprt.com/eds/01-03/)




14   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 1.3: Intercom demonstrates the difference between a conversation with a person and a
conversation with a business.




   Team members need to believe in these principles in order
for them to be useful. The principles should feel like a conver-
sation among team members—not something that has been
imposed on them. When you’re interviewing your internal
team, pay attention to how they define “good design.” What
themes emerge? If several people mention the importance of
making experiences clear and efficient, you may want to codify
that as a principle, like “Clear over clever.” Often, these princi-
ples already exist within people’s minds, but need some work
to define and document.


Decision-making tools
Good design principles help your team make decisions faster.
Without clear benchmarks, design reviews can become subject
to whim and opinion. Principles give structure to design feed-
back so you can make sound decisions more efficiently.



                                            P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   15
        Salesforce’s JD Vogt explains how design principles helped
     their team make decisions more quickly:

        It became clear that we lacked a framework for up-leveling and
        accelerating the discussion. We needed a way for everyone in
        the room to grok the intention, so we could align on the path
        forward. We needed prioritized principles to guide our commu-
        nication and decision making.
            We started to use these principles when discussing designs
        amongst ourselves. When creating designs, we’d consciously
        remind ourselves that the experiences we were creating should
        be clear, efficient, consistent, and beautiful. When reviewing
        design options, we’d run it through the same gauntlet. With
        practice, it became easier to rationalize a decision and pick a
        path forward.” (http://bkaprt.com/eds/01-04/)

         Good design principles can help your team get better at jus-
     tifying decisions, articulating that justification, and connecting
     back to your purpose and values at every turn.


     Establishing your principles
     You don’t want to create principles in a vacuum and then drop
     them on your team. Instead, bring people together to craft
     principles collaboratively.
        Start by holding a principles workshop, either in person or
     remotely. The benefit of developing these principles in a work-
     shop is that it generates momentum across your organization.

     1. Choose a cross-disciplinary team. You want to focus on
        alignment across teams, not just individuals. Bring together
        a representative group of designers, engineers, researchers,
        content strategists, and other key stakeholders.
     2. Gather your materials. If you’re running this workshop in
        person, you’ll need Post-its, Sharpies, and dot-voting stick-
        ers. If you’re running this workshop remotely, you can use
        any digital card-sorting tool with video conferencing. I like
        to use Trello for this exercise, because the cards are sortable
        and feel tactile.



16   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
3. Establish your goals. Set up the meeting by establishing the
   purpose. Explain what principles are and how they help.
   Share examples of effective principles. I’ve found it useful
   to share examples of effective principles and how they are
   reflected in products.
4. Brainstorm principles. Have everyone jot down one idea for
   a principle per Post-it note (if meeting in person) or Trello
   card (if meeting remotely)—one principle per card! Give
   people enough time to generate five or six cards.
5. Converge and theme. Participants can take turns reading
   their principles aloud and sticking the Post-its on walls. As
   the workshop facilitator, you can start to group these Post-
   its into themes (or designate other workshop members to
   do so). You can use this same process remotely on Trello by
   grouping cards in the same lanes.
6. Rank and vote. Have your team vote on the principles that
   resonate most with them. Which ones feel most like your
   company? If you’re meeting in person, you can use dot-vot-
   ing: give everyone three dot stickers and ask them to place
   them on the principles that resonate with them the most.
   If you’re running this workshop remotely, team members
   can join Trello cards to “vote.” Talk about the principles
   that got the most votes as a group. Why did they resonate?

   Ideally, you will leave this workshop with a long list of prin-
ciples that have been grouped into themes and rated. The next
step is making the principles short and memorable. I’ve found
that once you go over five principles, people start forgetting
them. Aim for five principles and focus on making the language
as clear as possible. Then prepare to share them more broadly
so the principles get used.


Using your principles
Design principles can be considered a tool, just like a UI kit.
They should be applied throughout the design process in order
to create better experiences. Design your principles with adop-
tion in mind.




                                     P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   17
     Pilot principles with teams
     One way to treat principles like a tool is to soft-launch them
     with a few product teams. Test your principles with a handful
     of teams at different stages in their process. How will the princi-
     ples help the teams decide on a strategy or refine an implemen-
     tation? Get insights from these teams about how easy it was (or
     wasn’t) to use the principles. Did they feel tangible enough to
     apply to their work? These insights will help you refine your
     principles before you release them more broadly.


     Make them stick
     Principles will only be effective if they become part of your
     team’s shared language. Get people excited about them! Posters
     can keep principles in everyone’s sight (Fig 1.4). If you have
     remote employees that can’t see posters in an office, creating
     desktop wallpapers for work computers can help those employ-
     ees feel included.
        At Shopify, principles became a topic of weekly discussion
     in our team’s UX Slack channel. We would discuss, say, what
     it meant for a product to feel “crafted” and share examples of
     other products, digital or not, that exemplified that principle.
     This helped reinforce our principles among team members and
     added more nuance to our understanding.


     Turn your principles into decision-making tools
     Put your principles into practice by coming up with tools that
     make it easier to apply them. For example, you could create
     a design review template that has the principles baked in, or
     scorecards for teams to measure themselves against the princi-
     ples in project retrospectives.
        In “Design Doesn’t Scale,” Stanley Wood describes how the
     team at Spotify created an acronym from their design principles:




18   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 1.4: These posters helped the Salesforce team evangelize their design principles.



   Looking for more ways to define quality, we recently began
   asking if a design is “in TUNE”, an acronym to measure all
   parts of the experience, including how it feels to use Spotify.
   This is helping to shape a strong narrative around the emotive
   aspects of our experience, and be mindful that the interface
   is the brand.

         • Tone. Are we using the right kind of tone of voice for
           our brand?
         • Usable. Is it accessible to everyone?
         • Necessary. Is that functionality really needed?
         • Emotive. Does it feel good to use? Feel like somebody
           cares? (http://bkaprt.com/eds/01-05/)

   These aren’t the typical kinds of tools you might expect to
come out of a design system, but they are important because
they give teams a shared definition of quality. We’ll only be able
to build better products faster if we can define what “better”
means to us.
   These principles will also come in handy when teams need
to diverge meaningfully from something in the system. If they
need to create a new pattern, aligning to the principles will
improve the chances of this new pattern feeling aligned with
the rest of the product.




                                             P u r p o se a n d P r i n c ip l es﻿   19
     A STRONG FOUNDATION
     Your principles will evolve over time. As your product grows
     and business changes, some of your old principles may no lon-
     ger seem relevant. Give yourself space to revisit and evaluate
     whether your principles still work for you.
        Even though component libraries and style guides are the
     most visible outcomes of a system, it’s important to start with
     your purpose. A design system that has a solid purpose and
     principles, even with just a handful of components, will be
     more cohesive and dynamic than a system with hundreds of
     components but no shared purpose, principles, or foundation.
        Now that we’ve discussed how to define your system’s pur-
     pose and keep teams aligned towards that purpose, let’s talk
     about the process behind a design system.




20   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
2        THE PROCESS
         BEHIND THE SYSTEM
Brasilia, the capital of Brazil, is a planned city, built in
the 1950s to showcase a futuristic vision of what a city could
be. The plan was created by Lucio Costa and Oscar Neimeyer,
who dreamed of a deliberate and orderly city that would con-
trast with other organically grown Brazilian cities like Rio de
Janeiro (http://bkaprt.com/eds/02-01/).
    From ten thousand feet above, the city resembles an airplane
or a soaring bird. At that macro level, the design of the city is
perfectly rational, with clear separations of administrative,
industrial, commercial, residential, and recreational areas. The
individual buildings are striking examples of modernist archi-
tecture. So what went wrong?
    There were two big problems with the design of Brasilia: it
couldn’t scale, and it didn’t consider how real people behave in
cities. Brasilia was designed for five hundred thousand people.
The city now has a population of two million, with only ten
percent living in the original planned city. The rest have created
their own communities on the outskirts. The plan also didn’t
contain the ingredients of a typical city: messy streets, plazas,
sidewalks, meeting places. And Brasilia was built to be traversed
by car, making it difficult for pedestrians to get around.



                            T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   21
         Brasilia contains many beautiful components, but they don’t
     all work together as a city because its design didn’t consider
     people’s needs.
         We’re not building anything as vast or permanent as a city.
     But design systems, like cities, need proper planning in order
     to work well. A well-planned system is easy to use, inspires
     participation, and grows stronger over time. A poorly planned
     system feels disjointed, confusing, and difficult to use. And if
     you don’t plan your system well, people will start creating their
     own systems on the outskirts.
         Before you design any components, start your design system
     by doing a series of inventories and mapping exercises. Take
     a broad view of your entire product ecosystem before getting
     into more granular, individual components. It may feel tedious
     at first, but this planning will help you make better decisions
     later on.



     MAPPING YOUR ECOSYSTEM
     When you start developing a design system, you need to answer
     some big questions:

     • What products will this system serve?
     • Which people should we involve?
     • What is the scope of this system?

       Planning will help you focus. The first step is to understand
     your system as it exists today. What products or services exist?
     What is their relationship to one another?


     Product and user inventory
     We’re going to kick off the planning process by creating a
     product and user inventory. This works best as a collaborative
     exercise with everyone in the design systems team; that way,
     you can draw on your collective memory. Doing this exercise
     might reveal products you didn’t even know existed.




22   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
    Carve out a couple of hours as a group and list as many
products as possible. Start with the obvious: what are the core
products your audiences interact with daily? Then move on
to smaller products. List actual product names (like “Gmail”)
instead of broad categories (like “mobile apps”).
    Your list will vary in complexity based on the size of your
organization. If you’re creating a design system for a large web-
site, your “products” may actually be distinct sections or pages of
your site that are owned and managed by different people. For
example, a University site may list “Home,” “Course Catalog,”
“Library,” “Admissions,” and “Virtual Tour.” If you’re a large
corporation, you may have many products across a range of
platforms. A bank, for example, may have separate websites for
banking and credit cards as well as several iOS and Android apps.
    After you’ve created a list of your products, the next step is
to create a list of your audiences. What different types of people
use your products? As you create this list, you may also want to
note who your primary audience is. You will eventually want
to go further and start thinking about the types of tasks each
audience performs when they use your products, but you don’t
need to do that just yet.
    If you finish this exercise feeling surprised or overwhelmed
by the scope of your product landscape, don’t worry. At this
point, we’re just trying to understand the bigger picture. We’ll
get more granular as we move through the planning.


Document the inventory in a spreadsheet
You want the information you gather to be shareable and to
serve as a reference for future design-systems work. So expand
on the list in a spreadsheet. Here’s some information that is
most useful to document:

• Product name. What is the name of this product?
• Platform. What platform is this product on (Web, iOS,
  Android, etc.)?
• Audience. Who is the core audience for this product?
• Purpose. What is the primary purpose of this product?
• Product owner. Who is the product owner or team lead?



                            T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   23
       Depending on your organization, you may also want to
     document the following:

     • Principles. Does this product have any documented
       principles?
     • Brand language. Does this product use a different brand
       language? If you’re working at a company that has multiple
       brands or sub-brands, make a note of that.
     • Other metadata. Make a note of anything else that can help
       your planning process. Has this product team expressed
       interest in the design system? Is this product due for a rede-
       sign, or has it recently undergone one?

       At this point, you’re not making any decisions. You’re just
     deepening your understanding of the landscape so you can
     make informed decisions later.


     Drawing an ecosystem map
     All of this context you’ve gathered about your products and
     audiences will help you create an ecosystem map. An ecosys-
     tem map reveals the connections between your users and your
     products.
        Small, iterative changes can dilute your brand voice and
     make it uneven over time. You may not notice any inconsis-
     tency unless you happen to see two juxtaposed screens showing
     different brand applications. Ecosystem mapping allows you to
     perceive this inconsistency through the eyes of an end user.
        Remember when I said, in Chapter 1, that cohesion is harder
     to accomplish than unity when creating a design system? An
     ecosystem map helps you understand how your experiences
     lack cohesion. In the context of your organization, your eco-
     system contains all of your products across all platforms. Your
     users are traveling from place to place in order to accomplish
     their tasks. Along that path, they might be met with inconsistent
     naming, visual styles, or interaction patterns.
        It’s valuable to perform an ecosystem mapping exercise
     as a collaborative workshop, especially if you include rep-




24   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
resentatives from different product lines in addition to the
design-systems team. Besides spotting inconsistencies, you’re
also developing a shared understanding of how users experi-
ence your products.
   To create an ecosystem map:

1. Choose an audience type. Select an audience type from your
   user inventory. It makes sense to start with your primary
   audience types.
2. List the tasks they perform on a daily basis. Using Post-it
   notes, write down the tasks this audience type performs on
   a daily basis. For instance, if you’re working on a website for
   a university, those tasks might be applying for admission,
   scheduling a campus visit, applying for financial aid, etc.
3. Break a task out into a user flow. Choose one task and break
   out the steps necessary to complete it. For instance, if your
   task is “applying for admission,” a user needs to research
   the programs, find key dates, and submit the application.
4. Map the flow to the sections of your product. One way to
   do this is by using Post-its. Use one color for your users,
   another color for your tasks, and a third color for the pages
   or sections a user will visit to complete that task. Place
   the user at the center and cluster their tasks around them,
   followed by the corresponding pages in the outer ring (Fig
   2.1). If your product is on multiple platforms, take that
   into account as well. How does a user complete the task of
   “applying for admission” on a website versus a mobile app?
5. Write down which teams are responsible for each of the
   sections. Pay attention to moments where several teams are
   responsible for different parts of one flow. In the example
   above, you might have one team responsible for the “home-
   page,” another responsible for the “admissions page,” and
   still another responsible for the “applicant submission”
   process. Or you might have one team responsible for that
   entire flow on your website and a different team managing
   the flow for your mobile app.
6. Repeat these steps as needed. Repeat this process for other
   core flows and audience types.




                            T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   25
Fig 2.1: A sample ecosystem map. The inner ring (red) is the audience type, the middle
ring (orange) shows the different steps this audience type would take to apply for college,
and the outer ring (yellow) represents the different site sections they’d need to interact
with to carry out the tasks. This hypothetical user would have to travel to at least three
different domains to complete everything.




           7. Visualize your ecosystem map. After you’ve done the steps
              above for a few flows, you want to understand what each
              flow looks like from a user’s perspective. Choose a flow and
              take screenshots of each of the product sections. This will
              help you see how a user moves through the various sections
              of your products.

              This exercise works well in person with lots of sticky notes,
           but you can also use a collaborative whiteboarding tool if your
           team is remote. I used Miro for this example (http://bkaprt.com/
           eds/02-02/).
              Pay special attention to the times when a user needs to travel
           across different sections of products to complete a task. Do
           those flows feel cohesive? How much variation is there across
           the different products that make up one user journey? Look out
           for inconsistencies that would make a user feel like they’re
           suddenly in a new experience (Fig 2.2).



     26    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 2.2: Recently, I was looking for international customer support for my phone carrier.
As I went through the flow, I felt like I had landed on a completely different website: the
navigation, typography, spacing, and button styling were completely different from the
previous pages. I had to take the time to make sure I was still on the Sprint website before
I added my information. Inconsistencies like these can confuse and frustrate your users.



   Visual inconsistencies can be easy to spot, but be sure to
keep an eye out for different language describing the same
task, which can also lead to confusion. Selene Hinkley, a con-
tent strategist on the Shopify Polaris team, found that across
the App store and Theme store, different terms were being
used to describe the action of installing a theme onto a store
(“Add Theme” versus “Install Theme”). Because the phrase “Add
Theme” was more approachable and embodied the principles
the team had established, the team updated all language to use
that term.


Evaluating your ecosystem map
The point of these activities is to help you figure out where to
start in the planning process.




                                   T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   27
        There are many ways to begin design-system work: you can
     start with your visual language, or you can start with small,
     basic components, like buttons. I recommend something else:
     start with the elements that will most improve the user expe-
     rience of your products.
        Let’s revisit the planning questions that I raised in
     the beginning:

     • What products will this system serve? The product inven-
       tory can show you your core product. If you have multiple
       core products, start with products that share similar pur-
       poses and audiences.
     • Which people should we involve? Your ecosystem map
       should illuminate which teams need to work more closely
       together. For example, you may discover that two teams that
       don’t work closely together are closely linked in a user’s jour-
       ney. You may decide that part of your design-system work
       will involve bringing those teams closer together.
     • What is the scope of this system? A design system’s scope is
       a combination of the products and people it serves and the
       parts it contains. At this point, you probably have an idea
       about the products and people, but still don’t know which
       parts to include in your initial release. We’ll get to that next.

        In other words, you’re looking for where your system can
     have the biggest impact. Consider these goals in your plan-
     ning process:

     • Identify workflow pain points and opportunities. As a user
       moves through a workflow, is there a similar concept that’s
       described in a different way? Are there specific flows where
       users are met with inconsistent navigation patterns? Where
       are users getting the most confused?
     • Find visual inconsistency. Does your company look like
       it has a unified design language? This exercise should help
       you spot some of your biggest areas of visual inconsistency
       right away. This will especially be the case if your team has
       been iterating on design language in small bits over time (for
       example, if you’ve been experimenting with different illus-



28   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
  tration styles in a specific area). Seeing these things next to
  one another, through the lens of how a user sees them, will
  illuminate areas where your brand language is falling apart.
• Organize across silos. Even if your team is organized into
  silos, your users shouldn’t see that. This exercise can help
  you spot where the siloing leads to a lack of cohesion. And
  that, in turn, will let you determine how a design system
  can help you drive alignment across different feature teams.
  Creating this map gives you a good opportunity to form
  relationships with these product teams.

    Each of these goals maps to an aspect of your design system.
If you find you have a lot of uneven workflows, you may want
to focus your attention on guidelines for how components
are used to solve problems. If you mostly find inconsistency
with components, think about how you might improve visual
consistency. If you find a lack of cohesion across your team’s
product lines, you may want to concentrate on unifying teams
and encouraging them to talk with one another more.



TAKING INVENTORY
Your product inventory should have given you a good under-
standing of the scope of your products. Your ecosystem map-
ping exercise should have revealed areas where your products
lack cohesion. Up to this point, we’ve been looking broadly.
Now it’s time to go a level deeper to understand the current
state of our design language and user interfaces.
   The next step in the planning process is to create an audit.
You’ve probably heard of an audit before, or conducted one
yourself. It’s frequently recommended as the first activity in
any design-system process. I recommend doing your audit after
your product inventory and ecosystem map because auditing
takes a lot of time. The previous exercises can help you narrow
your scope, allowing you to focus on a few products or sections
at a time.
   When you audit, you’re evaluating the quality and amount of
variation in your design. You want to focus on two things: your



                           T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   29
     design language and your user interfaces. Your design language
     includes all of the elements that express your brand visually:
     typography, color, iconography, shape, and space. Your user
     interface is your components.
        Some folks recommend auditing the components and design
     language separately. I recommend doing one audit, and then
     evaluating the results independently. Think of the auditing
     process like decluttering your closet. First, you want to take
     everything out of the closet. Then, you want to group similar
     items. And finally, you’ll get rid of items that are redundant or
     not providing value. If you try to do all of these steps at once,
     the process will take too long and you’ll feel overwhelmed.
     The same is true for auditing your design language and UI.
     Get everything out in the open, categorize, and then evaluate
     for quality.
        Here’s what an auditing process looks like:

     1. Organize a team. Auditing takes time. Working as a team
        can make it go faster, so no one suffers from audit fatigue.
        Another benefit: shared perspectives. It’s easy to quantify
        how many components you have, but it’s much harder to
        measure the quality of a component. Conducting an audit
        as a group enables you to develop a shared understanding
        of quality.
     2. Choose a tool. Your auditing tool should be digital and col-
        laborative. It should also allow you to add metadata, like
        where a component is located. Finally, the tool should be
        visual. You are, after all, evaluating the visual appearance of
        these components. Based on these criteria, I’ve found that
        AirTable (airtable.com) works best for this type of audit
        because it lets you switch between a traditional spreadsheet
        view and a gallery view (Fig 2.3).
     3. Decide on categories. Choose the categories you’ll be audit-
        ing. You may want to divide your audit into three big cate-
        gories: UI components, content display components, and
        visual styles. UI components include small elements like
        form fields and buttons. Content display components refer to
        larger components like a hero module or a story card. Visual
        styles indicate your design language—elements like type and



30   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 2.3: AirTable’s gallery view makes it easy to see visual inconsistencies in the user
interface, as in this audit Vivian Li conducted at Qwilr (http://bkaprt.com/eds/02-03/).



   color. After you’ve decided on the categories, assign them
   to people on the team.
4. Screenshot and categorize. Next comes the work of tak-
   ing and categorizing screenshots. Each auditor reviews
   your products, taking screenshots of the components and
   entering relevant information into the spreadsheet. Your
   spreadsheet should include an image of the component, the
   component’s name, and the component’s location.

   Depending on the scope of your products, an audit can take
several weeks. Once you’ve completed this process, it’s time to
interpret the results.


Evaluate your design language
The purpose of a visual audit is to evaluate your design lan-
guage across your products. You’re looking for unity. Do all
of your brand elements currently hold together to tell one
story? Broadly, you want to understand two things—quality
and quantity:




                                   T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   31
     • How well does your design language express your brand?
       You need some way to measure whether your design lan-
       guage is effective—that is, how well it expresses your brand.
       Before you start evaluating, it’s helpful to come prepared
       with any documentation of your strategic brand guidelines.
       That could be a brand playbook, brand purpose statement,
       or design principles. I’ve seen teams use a print style guide
       or printed material as the true representation of their brand
       and evaluate their digital presence against it.
     • Is your design language consistent? While the first question
       is all about the quality of your design language, here you
       want to understand the quantity of your design elements. Are
       you using design elements in a consistent way? Are primary
       buttons always blue? Is the body copy 18px throughout the
       site? For each of your categories, add up how many vari-
       ations currently exist. Type sizes and color hex codes are
       common culprits of inconsistency.

        Both questions are important. In general, I’ve seen audits
     focus more on answering the second question. However, if
     your design language is consistent but it doesn’t express your
     brand, then your language isn’t working.
        This exercise should help you understand whether you need
     a full-scale redesign or just some realignment. If your brand
     language clearly expresses the mission of your products but
     there are some outliers, then you may just need to make some
     adjustments.


     Evaluate your components
     Next, you need to evaluate your components. As with the visual
     audit, we want to understand quantity as well as quality. How-
     ever, we’ll start with quantity and then evaluate quality once
     we’ve narrowed down our component list:




32   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 2.4: Airbnb’s listing card and the Guardian’s story card repeat frequently and are
specific to their product, making them good design-system contenders.




• Which components are used most frequently? First, you’ll
  find some components that recur often because they are
  the basic building blocks of any digital product—buttons,
  accordions, checkboxes, tabs. I consider these high-frequency
  components because they repeat so often throughout digital
  products.
• Which high-frequency components are unique to your
  products? Chances are that in addition to these basic com-
  ponents, your specific product has a few larger components
  that repeat often, like Airbnb’s listing cards, or the Guardian’s
  story cards (Fig 2.4). I consider these high-value components.
  They might not repeat as often as high-frequency compo-
  nents, but they have a huge role in defining the experience
  of your product. Improving the functionality and design of
  high-value components is a great way to improve the overall
  design quality of your products.




                                   T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   33
        For your first design-system release, you’ll want to choose
     a blend of both high-frequency and high-volume components.


     Group components by purpose
     As useful as they are, these inventories don’t help us understand
     why the components exist, or what problems they solve.
        In her book Design Systems, Alla Kholmatova proposes the
     idea of a purpose-directed inventory. While a visual inventory
     focuses on grouping things by appearance and type, like buttons
     and forms, this inventory groups items by purpose.
        You may have two patterns that look different but solve
     similar problems, or two patterns that look similar but solve
     different problems. To spot these sorts of patterns, define com-
     ponents (and their variations) by the problem they solve instead
     of by their visual style.
        When components lack clarity and purpose, the result is
     inconsistency. If you don’t define a purpose, you may get
     designers and engineers making a new version of a component
     for a small visual change. An increase in the number of one-off
     components across your system will increase technical and
     design debt—the exact opposite of what you want.
        Grouping components by purpose works best to help you
     understand your larger components, especially ones that dis-
     play content. That’s because the variation on smaller compo-
     nents, like buttons, tends to be visual, not conceptual.
        Ask your auditors to work together to group components
     they think serve a similar purpose. This usually leads to some
     debate about each component’s purpose until people start to
     get aligned. Eventually, you’ll have a pile of components that
     seem like they’re solving the same problem.
        How do you know if components are solving the same
     problem? Ignore the visual design for a moment and focus on
     the content. Consider four components from my local library’s
     website (Fig 2.5). The purpose of each component is to preview
     book information, such as:

     • thumbnail of the book cover
     • book title



34   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 2.5: This set of components all offer varying information about a book, but at first
glance, it’s unclear whether those variations are intentional. Digging into the content and
how it differs across components is a good way to start consolidating them.




• author name
• publication date
• type of book
• availability

    Why do only some display an author name? How relevant
is the publication date to the action the user is taking? These
are good questions to dig into once we get to consolidating
components.


Consolidate your components
It’s very likely that you found a lot of redundant components
in your audit. You can’t bring all of the existing components
into your new system because your goal is to reduce design and
technical debt. You need to determine whether a component
adds value before you try to bring it into the new system.
    When we were creating a unified feature template at Vox,
we identified eighty-one HTML components—like pull quotes,
captions, and galleries—that editors used via the CMS to make
their stories more robust. We needed a way to whittle that list
down to something more manageable. The team established




                                   T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   35
     some criteria to evaluate whether the existing snippets were
     worth including:

     • Does it add value? Value, in this case, was determined by
       whether or not editorial teams found the snippets enhanced
       their storytelling. There were a few ways we identified value.
       If a snippet was used more frequently, we assumed it pro-
       vided more value. We also talked to editorial teams about
       how they put stories together.
     • Is it available to three or more brands? If it’s common
       enough to be used by three or more of our eight brands,
       then we can bring it into the new system.
     • Is it a must-have for one brand? If it’s absolutely critical
       to the editorial mission of a brand, then we can make an
       exception to the “three or more” rule.
     • Does it engage readers? Analytics can also provide insight
       into which of your existing components perform the best.
       If you have several components that serve the same pur-
       pose, you can use analytics to determine if some are more
       successful than others. For example, if you have several
       recirculation modules—maybe one with large images, one
       with small images, and one with no images—you could see
       which one drives more page views, and then use that as the
       model for a new, consolidated component.
     • Does it uphold the design principles? Lastly, use the design
       principles you’ve set to measure the success of your existing
       components. Rank similar components against your values
       to see which ones meet your quality standards. Let’s say one
       of your principles is “Clarity”—if you have a component that
       makes it very clear to a user what their next step should be,
       and a similar component that doesn’t, you could remove the
       more ambiguous component.

        At this point, we’ve created a map of our ecosystem, which
     told us where we should focus our efforts first. We’ve gone
     one level deeper with a component audit to determine which
     components are used most frequently. We’ve established some
     criteria for measuring the success of these existing components.
     Now let’s begin the work of creating the system.



36   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
BEGINNING YOUR SYSTEM
As I said at the beginning of this book, your team is already
working in systems, whether they are documented or not. Now
that you’ve completed your ecosystem mapping and audits, it’s
time to ask yourself if you are happy with the existing system.
   That will help you figure out where to start. Your research
should lead you to one of two conclusions:

1. Your existing system is working well. You want to document
   what’s working about it and create reusable patterns so
   everyone on your team can benefit.
2. Your existing system isn’t working well. You want to
   improve the system.

   What does “working well” mean? One of the reasons to set
up design principles in the beginning is so you can answer
this question objectively. “Working well” means the product
is upholding your design principles, the design language is
communicating your brand voice, and the design system as a
whole is responding to user needs.
   You may find that some aspects of your system work better
than others. Say you’re happy with your typography system,
but your color system doesn’t express your brand accurately.
Since design systems aren’t linear, you may discover through
the process of documenting your typography system that it
actually isn’t working as well as you initially thought and that
you need to improve it. That’s okay! Systems are meant to
evolve as context accumulates.
   At this juncture, you want to find a starting point that will be
the most valuable for your team, either by documenting what
already exists or by starting from scratch.


Start by documenting what exists
If you find your existing system is working well, your goal will
primarily be to unify and document what exists. Many teams
use one or two core products that work well as the starting
point for their design system.



                            T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   37
         With this approach, you’re starting with an existing product
     and distilling its proven patterns into a design system. The ben-
     efit of this approach is that you’re starting with patterns that
     have been vetted. This way is quicker because you don’t have
     to design lots of new things. Instead, you’re cataloging what
     works well so other teams can benefit. If you find you have
     too many components that are solving similar problems, you
     can use the core product as a starting point for consolidation.
         There is a downside to this approach, though. The patterns
     may be too specific to one product. Other teams may feel left
     out of the process and as if they have to use a system that
     doesn’t fully reflect their needs. You have to pay close attention
     to involving other teams in this work.


     Start from scratch
     The other option is to start from scratch. This is usually the
     way to go if you find your design language isn’t working well.
     With this approach, you start by creating a brand-new design
     language, exploring how that design language might work
     across multiple products, and creating reusable components.
     This approach can lead to a more well-rounded system, because
     it compels you to explore how the design language works across
     a range of products.
         The risk of this approach is that it takes longer, and you
     may spend too much time exploring a design language in the
     abstract. The danger here is that an element that works well
     in isolation might not work well in context. For instance, a
     primary button style that looks bright and vibrant on its own
     may feel too overwhelming when it’s placed around other com-
     ponents. Or the spacing built into a component doesn’t work
     once it’s around other ones. In Chapter 3, I’ll talk about how
     you can explore a design language by looking across a compo-
     nent hierarchy, so that you can look at design elements both by
     themselves and in context. However, the best way to avoid this
     problem is by starting small and integrating a few elements of
     your new design language into products so you can get a sense
     of how they feel in actual products.




38   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   After your audit and planning work, you will have a list of
tasks to start from. Regardless of where you landed, it’s very
likely that part of your work will include unifying and docu-
menting a set of components.


What makes a good component?
No matter which entry point you choose, you’re working toward
a system of good design components—components that are:

• Purposeful. All of your components should solve a spe-
  cific problem. Define them by their purpose, not by how
  they look.
• Reusable. Your components should work for multiple use
  cases. Reduce the number of components that only work
  for a singular use case.
• Flexible. They should work in many different contexts.
  If you design components that are too rigid, people will
  create their own components and you’ll end up with a
  bloated system.

  By now, you will have a collection of components to work
with—components that have the potential to be good, solve
specific problems, and provide value to your system. A big
part of design-system work is gathering, consolidating, and
documenting components until your first release.


The process at work
To understand how this all works together, consider Vox
Media’s scorecard component (Fig 2.6). A scorecard is displayed
in a review to show the author’s rating of that particular prod-
uct. Although scorecards at Eater, the Verge, and Polygon all
look visually distinct, they all solve the same problem: “Show
an author’s rating and summary of a review.”
    In order to identify the points where these components
aligned—and didn’t—we mapped out the user goals and content
for each (Fig 2.7).




                           T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   39
Fig 2.6: Eater, the Verge, and Polygon each used to have very different scorecards—but to
what end? They all solved the same problem of summarizing reviews.



 BRAND                 USER GOAL                         CONTENT
 Eater                 Find where to eat and             • Score
                       what to order                     • Title
                                                         • Address
                                                         • Cost
                                                         • Book a table
                                                         • Text field

 The Verge             Find a tech gadget to buy         • Score
                                                         • Title
                                                         • Product image
                                                         • Pro/con list
                                                         • Buy buttons
                                                         • Text field

 Polygon               Find a game to play               • Score
                                                         • Platform(s)
                                                         • Publisher
                                                         • Release date

Fig 2.7: Mapping the goals and content for each brand’s scorecard component helped us
identify how we might be able to design a single component that would work for all three.




    40     EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 2.8: The product card includes a score, a title, and a text field, all common elements to
scorecards across the brand. It’s flexible enough to be applied in many different contexts.




   All three scorecards showed a score; two of the three
included a title and a text field. We decided that at a minimum,
the scorecard component should contain a score, a title, and a
text field.
   The result was a baseline component: the product card, a
flexible component that could be applied broadly across our
brands. If you swapped out the gadget image for an image of a
kitchen appliance, for example, the design would still work
(Fig 2.8).



                                   T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   41
Fig 2.9: The venue card and the game card—two variations on the product card—show
information specific to Eater and Polygon, respectively.




             But we also had to consider the content that was different
          across the original scorecards, and why it was different. For
          instance, when looking at an Eater scorecard for a restaurant
          review, end users need to know venue information like the
          address and phone number. When looking at a game review
          at Polygon, they need to know the publisher, developers, and
          comparative scores across gaming platforms.
             These were necessary, brand-specific pieces of information,
          so we created two variations on the product card: the venue
          card and the game card. Each variation drew attention to the
          content that was specific to that card (Fig 2.9).
             Another benefit of basing components and their variations
          on their purpose (instead of on their visual style) is that it lets
          you iterate on them over time. Once a component is integrated
          into a product, product teams can measure how well the com-
          ponent solves the problem it is targeting. This allows teams to
          feel more confident about evolving and improving components.




    42    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
DOCUMENTING COMPONENTS
Strong, clear, thorough documentation is an important part of
any design system. A component or pattern is only as good as
the guidance that explains how to use it. Your documentation
should help everyone building products understand how to
use your components to craft experiences. Explain the pur-
pose of each component and the UX rationale behind it so that
everyone involved with the system can use the components
thoughtfully.


Name it
The naming of a component should be as diverse and cross-dis-
ciplinary as your team is. In “The Language of Modular Design,”
Alla Kholmatova explained the importance of collaborative
naming: “It’s not so much about giving something a great name
(although, of course, that’s an ideal to aspire to), but agreeing on
the name. That determines how the element will be used and
helps to ensure that it’s used consistently by everyone” (http://
bkaprt.com/eds/02-04/). Designers, engineers, product man-
agers, content strategists—all should inform the name of your
component.
    Establishing a clear, shared language helps us make better
decisions about the purpose of each of our components and
how they should be used. It improves collaboration and speeds
up design and development.
    A good component name should be:

• Purposeful. A name should describe the purpose of the
  component, not what it looks like.
• Specific. A name should be as straightforward as possible.
• Inclusive. Use language that everyone can understand.
  Because design systems serve many types of people who
  have varying levels of technical expertise, it’s important to
  give components names that most people can understand.

   While metaphors can be memorable, they can be tough to
scale. At Vox Media, we used a “river” metaphor to describe



                             T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   43
     a list of articles. Content flowed down a “river” and could be
     interrupted by “rocks” and “breakers,” like Most Read mod-
     ules. This metaphor made sense to the team that created it, but
     onboarding new people became increasingly difficult. Explain-
     ing the river metaphor every time a new person joined the team
     was a source of friction. A better name for “River” would be
     “Story Feed.” The name is more straightforward and descrip-
     tive. It lets people know that this component is a collection
     of stories. Because the concept of a “feed” is well established
     throughout the web and publishing industries, new team mem-
     bers find that language familiar.


     Draft some guidelines
     At a minimum, your component documentation should include
     these elements:

     • Name and description: A title and short description that
       helps users quickly understand what the component or
       pattern is.
     • Purpose: A scannable statement that explains the purpose
       of the component. You want designers and developers to
       be thoughtful about how each component fits into the big-
       ger picture.
     • Example: Preferably an example of the component at work,
       both in design and in code.

       You may also want to include:

     • When to use it: The situations in which a component or
       pattern should be implemented.
     • When not to use it: Specific situations where you know a
       pattern will not work, and what to use instead.
     • Content guidelines: How content should be written for this
       component based on what it needs to communicate to users.
     • Related patterns: Other patterns or components in the sys-
       tem that may be related in purpose, presentation, or content.




44   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Meet your users’ needs
Design systems serve many types of users. In order to write
effective documentation, figure out who your primary system
users are and what they need to understand about using the
components. Conduct interviews to learn about other teams’
processes, degrees of technical expertise, and what would best
serve them in working with the system.
    Shopify’s Polaris team did research with different teams to
understand how they each used existing design-system docu-
mentation. They discovered that designers and content strate-
gists were likely to scroll to find a more detailed rationale
behind how to use components. Developers, on the other hand,
craved efficiency; they wanted to be able to grab component
code as quickly as possible. Because of this, Shopify created
documentation that presented components with code snippets
first, and content guidelines farther down (Fig 2.10).
    The resulting design system documentation is a reflection
of Shopify’s cross-disciplinary process. Design, content, and
tech guidelines are all integrated in each component’s docu-
mentation.



INTEGRATING YOUR NEW COMPONENTS
After designing your initial components, you’ll need to release
them into existing products. There are two ways to roll out a
design system: incrementally or with a large-scale redesign.
   An incremental rollout involves rolling out small pieces of the
design system at a time. If you’ve started your design system by
abstracting successful patterns from an existing product, then
an incremental rollout makes sense. You can take those com-
ponents and slowly start to integrate them into other products.
   This gives you the opportunity to test your components
in a real context and not spend too much time designing in a
vacuum—and you’ll see progress more immediately. If you start
with common problems, like consolidating icon styles, users
will benefit from the consistency more quickly, and you’ll start




                            T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   45
Fig 2.10: Shopify’s component documentation gathers guidance for code, design, and
content all in one place, organized for use by multiple Polaris audiences.




    46    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   47
     reducing technical and design debt. An incremental approach
     also gets you into the habit of working in a system.
        The downside to an incremental approach is that your prod-
     ucts may exist in a limbo period where they rely on a combina-
     tion of new and old styles. The impact of this will depend on
     how much of your design language you’ve changed. If a new
     button feels completely out of place next to the rest of your UI,
     then an incremental approach might not make sense.
        Keep in mind that some components will be easier to imple-
     ment than others. A grid, for example, will likely require sub-
     stantial layout changes because you’re essentially sliding a new
     foundation under a house. Smaller components, like buttons
     and icons, require less redesigning, but could be deceptively
     complicated because they exist in so many places.
        On the other hand, a large-scale redesign means you’re engag-
     ing in a full design process, changing big things like your design
     language, layouts, and components. The benefit of a large-scale
     redesign is you won’t feel that inconsistency of mixing old and
     new visual styles. The downside is that it takes more time up
     front, and you’ll wait longer to see the benefits. Also, you may
     spend too long debating design decisions in isolation with-
     out seeing them in context. If you plan on doing a large-scale
     redesign, I recommend giving your team a time limit to get the
     initial release out.
        It’s also likely that a large-scale redesign will require product
     teams to redesign some of their work. What if the new design
     system doesn’t include a component they need? Should they
     redesign it to fit the new standards? Choose an alternative
     component? Wait and see if this component ends up on your
     roadmap? Be prepared to answer those questions and use them
     to inform future work on the system. If several teams are ask-
     ing for a toggle component, that would be a good candidate to
     include in a future release.
        Regardless of your initial scope, your design system will
     require product teams to stop what they’re doing. If you’ve won
     advocates along the way, by involving a variety of people in
     your principles workshop, ecosystem mapping, or component
     design work, it’ll be easier to get buy-in.




48   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   So far, we’ve talked about how to plan a system and how
to create your initial components. Next, we’ll take a look at
defining your brand in a system. Your brand language holds all
of these smaller pieces together by presenting a unified voice
to your users.




                          T h e P r o c ess B e h i n d t h e S ys t em﻿   49
3    COMMUNICATING
     YOUR BRAND
     In the previous two chapters, I talked about the impor-
     tance of using a design system to achieve unity and cohesion.
     When it comes to expressing brand in a system, there’s another
     quality we want to embody: harmony. Harmony is the result
     of combining all of our design elements to produce pleasing
     layouts.
         There are a few reasons why I think harmony is important
     for a design system. First, we’re breaking down our user inter-
     faces into small, reusable pieces. We don’t always know how
     these pieces are going to be put together, but we do want the
     pieces to fit. Having consistent building blocks won’t guarantee
     a harmonious layout.
         I often see the conversation about components kept sep-
     arate from the conversation about design language—which
     means we’re spending a lot of time defining the functionality
     of components and then applying the visual language on top,
     like slapping a coat of paint on a table and hoping for the best.
         But a table has more qualities than just its color! The shape
     of the legs, the height, the style, the material it’s made of—all
     of these characteristics define what a table looks like. Similarly,
     brand expression is more than your visual language—it’s how



50   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
all of your elements come together to communicate your brand
voice. Instead of feeling like a skin on top of a component, your
design language should feel like a complete experience driven
from the core of your brand’s identity.
    We won’t be able to predict all of the different combinations
of components that will make up our pages. What we can do
is think about our brand language as it applies to a compo-
nent hierarchy. When we are thoughtful about how our brand
gets expressed at each level of a component hierarchy, we
achieve harmony.
    There are many design elements that can express brand, but
the trifecta of typography, color, and space is the most essential
to achieving harmony. That’s because we rely on typography
and color to convey information and emotion more than on
any other design elements. Space doesn’t speak, but it’s felt
throughout our designs. The difference between a design lan-
guage that feels complete and one that feels random is usually
a judicious use of space.
    In this chapter, we’re going to explore component hierar-
chies and how branding decisions permeate each level. Then,
I’ll give you some strategies for composing a design language
with component hierarchies in mind.



COMPONENT HIERARCHY
Breaking your products down into reusable components is a
crucial aspect of creating a design system. Those components
can either be generic or specific. Generic components are adapt-
able for different use cases; specific components only work in
a few contexts. The more generic a component is, the more
flexible it will be.
   The word “generic” makes me a little uncomfortable, though.
How can our products feel distinct if they’re made up of generic
components? We first have to define a component hierarchy to
explain how these smaller pieces can be combined to form
larger, more expressive components. This hierarchy allows
our systems to scale.




                               C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   51
Fig 3.1: A basic component, like Atlassian’s buttons, can’t be broken down any further
(http://bkaprt.com/eds/03-01/).




              Different teams define the hierarchy of their components
           in different ways. As a general rule, though, these are the dif-
           ferent layers:

            • Basic components: Small, standalone components like but-
              tons and icons
            • Composite components: A collection of basic components
              combined to make larger, more specific components
            • Containers: Areas of a page that contain a collection
              of components
            • Layout: How all of the pieces are laid out on a page

              Let’s take a look at how to apply the core building blocks of
           a visual language to the layers of a design system.




    52     EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Basic components
The lowest layer in the hierarchy consists of basic components,
sometimes called elements, basics, or atoms. Basic components
are the smallest possible elements that can’t be broken down
any further, like buttons, links, or text fields (Fig 3.1).
   They are the building blocks of your system, and because
you will use them to create all of your larger components, they
need to be modular. Basic components also need to be the most
flexible; because they’re repeated so frequently in your inter-
faces, they need to work in a range of contexts.
   At the basic component level, color should be functional.
Most basic components are repeatable UI elements that direct
a user toward their next task, so the purpose of color should
be to guide attention.
   Typography should also be functional. Buttons, labels, and
other basic components in the user interface should use highly
legible fonts that make it easy for people to complete tasks.
Typefaces should have high x-heights, open apertures, and low
contrast between strokes, and work well at small sizes.
   The space within and between these basic components can
also become a style element. Compare the Bon Appetit button
with the Guardian button (Fig 3.2). The text on Bon Appetit’s
button is reversed out of a dark background, set in all-caps, and
tracked out slightly; there’s generous space around the text,
giving the button a relaxed and elegant feel. By contrast, the
Guardian’s button uses a slightly heavier font weight and tighter
tracking; both the arrow and the color yellow feel urgent.
   Basic components, like buttons, form fields, and dropdowns,
are common ingredients of digital products, but there are ways
to make them feel expressive. Take a look at Atlassian’s toggle
component (Fig 3.3). It’s small but highly opinionated, using
both color and an icon to communicate a state change (which
also makes it more accessible). The documentation for the
toggle also sets clear, specific guidelines about when it’s appro-
priate to use the toggle and when it’s better to use a checkbox:




                               C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   53
Fig 3.2: Basic components need to be functional, but they should still represent your
brand through typography, color, and use of space.




Fig 3.3: Atlassian’s toggle component is opinionated in both its design and usage
guidelines.




              Toggles should never require users to press a button to apply the
              settings. When you require users to press a submit button with
              a toggle, you may confuse them because it’s not the expected
              next step. In those cases, use checkboxes instead (http://bkaprt.
              com/eds/03-02/).

              Broadly used design frameworks, like Bootstrap, don’t (and
           shouldn’t) include this level of specificity around how to use
           components—they leave those decisions up to product teams.
           The rationale you provide for how basic components should
           be used will set your products apart. Ideally, this rationale will
           explain how each component can serve the design principles
           you established at the outset.


           Composite components
           The second layer is more complex. Composite components,
           often called components, modules, or molecules, are collections of



    54     EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.4: Shopify’s option list component is an example of a composite component because
it’s created by combining the card, title, and checkbox components.




Fig 3.5: Compare the difference between a font that works well for a basic component
and one used in a composite component. The font used for the button is a neutral,
humanist sans serif that works well at small sizes. The headline font, on the other hand,
is a display serif that’s packed with personality, befitting the brand’s mission: “Mailchimp
celebrates the joy, intensity, and weirdness of growing a brand.”




basic components that have been arranged in specific and opin-
ionated ways (Fig 3.4). These components can also be reusable,
but they often serve a more specific purpose, which makes
them less flexible. While the main measure of success for a basic
component is reusability, composite components are measured
by how well they solve their chosen problem.
   Composite components give you an opportunity to use color
and typography expressively. More complex components, like
Mailchimp’s story cards, call for larger, more expressive type
(Fig 3.5). For components like these, you can choose typefaces



                                       C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿     55
Fig 3.6: Functionally, these story cards from the Guardian and Bon Appetit are similar, but
they each express different tones.




           that have more character and higher contrast, unlike the more
           neutral UI fonts that work better for basic components.
              Along with typography, color in composite components can
           also be more expressive—bolder, brighter, and more striking,
           like the yellow background in MailChimp’s story cards (Fig 3.5).
              Compare two story cards from the Guardian and Bon Appetit
           (Fig 3.6). Functionally, they’re very similar. They both contain
           an image and a headline, and serve the purpose of providing a
           preview to an article. Their designs, however, communicate
           very different tones: the Guardian’s card feels more serious,
           while Bon Appetit’s feels more relaxed. Let’s unpack the design
           choices that make us feel that way.




     56    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   What’s most interesting about these story card examples is
their use of space. Bon Appetit’s typography makes generous
use of space within and around the text, which lets the design
breathe—I feel like I can lean back and take my time browsing
this site. The Guardian, on the other hand, uses very tight
spacing. The text is tightly leaded; the space between text and
container is almost nonexistent. This compression, common
in newspapers and news sites, creates a tension that commu-
nicates urgency.
   At the composite component level, you start to feel the
design language more because you’re looking at a collection
of components together. In these examples, the photography
style, the headline font, and the space around the type all work
together to express their respective brands.
   Keep in mind that the choices you make at this level should
build on the choices you made at the basic level. If you designed
your buttons with generous spacing, then your larger compo-
nents should also have airy spacing.


Containers
Containers (or regions) are larger areas of a page that contain
composite components. They are typically full-width horizon-
tal elements; pages are then composed by stacking containers
on top of each other. Containers are useful when you want to
group content in a specific way, but need to provide flexibility
in how those content chunks are arranged.
    Once we get to the container level, we can start to see how
pieces are working together. The primary design elements for
containers are color and space. Color can be used as a back-
ground behind a container to signal a shift in content or tone.
Space can be used to control density (Fig 3.7). At this level, we’re
looking at the horizontal space between elements as well as the
vertical space around the container.
    It’s really important to consider density holistically—again,
we’re building up our decisions at each level. If you have room-
ier buttons and components, then leaving more space between
your containers will make your designs feel more cohesive.




                                C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   57
Fig 3.7: Once you get to the container level, you can start to design your overall density.
Bon Appetit (left) uses vertical space much differently than the Guardian (left).




           Layouts
           Layouts (also known as templates) determine how these com-
           ponents can be arranged on a screen. They are defined by how
           the information on a screen will be used and how content will
           be organized.
              When you design a layout, you’re thinking about the rela-
           tionship between all of the elements on the page. Whereas at
           the container level we were thinking about the vertical space
           between components, at the layout level we’re thinking about
           the horizontal space between elements. At this level, you’ll
           make decisions about how large the various components should
           be in relation to one another.
              The Guardian’s container model provides a good example of
           how to compose a page from smaller elements (Fig 3.8). Their
           smallest building blocks are called items; each item represents
           an individual story. These items can be grouped horizontally
           into slices. Then, slices are gathered into containers that can be
           arranged in different ways. Finally, the Guardian’s pages—
           Home, News, Sports, and so on—are made up of containers.
              By defining its design system with this hierarchy, the Guard-
           ian gives itself opportunities for flexibility at every level (Fig
           3.9). At the component level, story cards can be displayed in a
           variety of sizes to communicate hierarchy. Containers can
           expand or contract based on the number of stories added to



     58    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.8: At the Guardian, items (left) are grouped into slices (middle), which are stacked
into containers (right) to compose a page (http://bkaprt.com/eds/03-03/).




Fig 3.9: The Guardian’s container model allows them to curate pages in flexible ways.




                                       C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿     59
     them, which communicates importance at any given time. And
     because the site’s pages are made up of these containers, stories
     can be grouped and highlighted in a variety of ways. Think
     about the type of flexibility you want your system to have and
     create a component hierarchy that helps you meet that goal.
         The decisions the Guardian made about its design language
     are applied consistently at each level of the hierarchy. Spacing
     is compact within individual cards, between cards, and between
     containers. Color is used as a wayfinding tool. Lines are used
     within cards, between cards, and between containers. When
     you look at your design language at the layout level, you want
     to ensure that all of your branding attributes work well together.
         Now that we’re up to speed with the building blocks of
     component hierarchies, let’s talk about how to design at every
     level in order to achieve a harmonious brand.



     BIG LEVERS AND SMALL DIALS
     As we saw when we broke down our component hierarchy,
     we not only need to think about design elements at each level,
     but also how they ascend the hierarchy. To do this, we need
     to explore our design language both globally and granularly.
        Just as there’s a hierarchy to components, there’s also a
     hierarchy to the kinds of design decisions you make. I think
     about it in terms of big levers and small dials. Levers are broad,
     sweeping decisions about how our experiences should feel.
     Dials are small, detailed choices that enable those feelings.
        Imagine you have a design in front of you. If you were to
     make the entire design feel heavier and more dense, what would
     you change? You would probably reduce the amount of space
     between elements. You might swap out fonts to a bolder weight
     or add some dark background colors. Now, what if you wanted
     to make the design light and airy? You would remove the dark
     background colors, lighten the font weights, and increase the
     amount of space between everything.
        You’re not actually pulling any levers or turning any dials,
     but I like to use this metaphor because it gets me in the mindset
     that all of the elements need to change together to change the



60   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
overall feeling of a page. Harmony means that everything is
working together.
    There are four big levers that determine what a design will
feel like: size, scale, density, and weight. If you squint, how
should your pages feel? Compact or loose? Dynamic or evenly
paced? Light or heavy?
    Defining the levers helps you make better choices about
your dials. The dials define granular elements: typography,
spacing, and color values. If your design process is anything
like mine, then you know the feeling of meticulously increasing
and decreasing a font size by one pixel before finally landing
on a size that feels right—it’s like turning a dial ever so slightly.
    If you define your dials but not your levers, you risk ending
up with design choices that feel arbitrary. You may have really
tight spacing in one section and loose spacing in another. Or
an area where color is used very heavily next to an area where
it’s used lightly. There are a few downsides to this:

     • Your pages will lack harmony and your layouts will
       feel unclear.
     • You’ll miss opportunities to be expressive, because
       levers have a larger global impact than dials.
     • Your teammates won’t understand how to apply the
       design language. As we’ll see in Chapter 5 (when we talk
       about how to document a design language), it’s import-
       ant to specify not only the granular design choices, but
       also the overall characteristics.

   Even though we won’t know all the ways components will
be used to build pages, we can have harmonious layouts if our
levers and dials are in tune. Let’s take a look at how to set them.


Making global design decisions
By manipulating the four levers—size, scale, density, and
weight—we can have enormous, sweeping impact on the look
and feel of our layouts (Fig 3.10):




                                 C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   61
     • Size: What size are the elements on the page? Should they be
       large or small? This choice ties back to the purpose of your
       product and what your audience expects to be able to do.
       Do you want someone to take their time consuming all of
       your content, focusing on one thing at a time? Choose larger
       elements that take up more room. Or, do you want someone
       to quickly see every action they can take at a glance? Choose
       smaller elements. Size primarily impacts the speed at which
       your content is consumed.
     • Scale: What size are elements relative to one another? Should
       there be a more dramatic size contrast between elements, or
       should everything feel similarly sized? Again, this ties back
       to purpose, audience expectation, and design principles.
       Scale is used to focus attention. If you want to guide your
       audience through a process, you need more pronounced
       size contrast that points to one primary action. This makes
       your audience feel more supported in their journey. If you
       want your audience to choose their own path, then use less
       contrast to highlight that there are multiple paths to choose
       from. Your audience will feel more empowered to make a
       decision. Scale primarily involves how you use size to focus
       attention.
     • Density and weight: How dense is the page? Should it feel
       airy or compact? Density and weight are related, but not
       identical: density refers to how tightly packed your elements
       are, while weight refers to the overall heaviness of a page.
       While density is primarily communicated through space,
       weight is communicated through typography and color.
       A page with lots of space between elements will feel airier
       than a page with tightly packed elements. A page with dark
       headers and bold, compact fonts will feel heavier than a page
       with delicate fonts and light colors.

        All of these levers relate to one another. For example, smaller
     elements that are more densely packed feel more efficient, which
     is helpful if you want users to complete a task quickly. Larger
     elements with airier spacing feel more engaging; these design
     elements make a user spend more time consuming the content.
     Combined, our levers describe how we can express a brand.



62   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.10: Size, scale, density, and weight are the four levers you can pull to define your
design language.



   Here’s how I pulled these levers when I was working on
designs for Vox.com and the Verge (Fig 3.11). My team was
starting from design languages that had been developed for
social and print. Our task was to take those brand guidelines
and reflect them digitally, as a design system.
   Our challenge at Vox Media was representing different
brands within one portfolio using the same building blocks.
Each of the verticals had a very different brand ethos, so we
started there. The following points have been adapted from
Vox.com’s brand statement:

• Vox explains the news and the world around you.
• Audiences expect trustworthy and contextual informa-
  tion. Vox conveys this with its brand ethos: “Smart. Audi-
  ence-first. Generous. Explanatory.”
• The content is primarily text-based, with just a little custom
  photography and illustration.
• The yellow highlight is a strong visual signifier.



                                       C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿     63
Fig 3.11: For Vox.com and the Verge, we pulled different levers to communicate each
publication’s distinct brand voice. Vox has more density than the Verge, while the Verge
uses more pronounced size contrast.




              And these have been adapted from the Verge’s brand statement:

            • The Verge is an ambitious multimedia effort to examine
              how technology will change life in the future for a massive
              mainstream audience.
            • Audiences expect in-depth reporting and long-form feature
              stories, delivered in a cutting-edge way. The Verge does this
              with its brand ethos: “Illuminating. Beautiful. Rebellious.
              Entertaining.”
            • The Verge is known as much for its custom photography as
              for its written content.
            • The gradients are a strong visual signifier.

              Vox.com’s “explanatory” versus the Verge’s “entertaining”
           sends a useful signal about scale and density. You can deduce
           that an audience looking for explanation expects information to
           be more compact than an audience looking to be entertained.
              In addition to the publications’ brand statements, we consid-
           ered their content. The Verge is known for its custom product
           photography and wanted to highlight it. Vox, on the other hand,
           often uses photos from sources like Getty Images, so it didn’t
           want to focus as much attention on photography. We noted,
           too, that Vox headlines tend to be longer than the Verge’s.



    64     EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
    We also looked at the design elements that had already been
defined. Balto, Vox’s headline typeface, is sturdy and works well
at a range of sizes. Heroic, the Verge’s headline typeface, is tall,
narrow, and needs to be set large to be legible.
    We determined that, for the Verge, we would need to make
the components larger to set Heroic well and highlight the
photography. In light of the Verge’s brand ethos of “Rebellious,”
we wanted the layout to feel dynamic, so we used a more pro-
nounced size contrast between elements. We selected gradients
and a dark color palette to evoke the “Illuminating” ethos. We
knew these choices would resonate with the Verge’s audience
because it expects the Verge to be entertaining.
    For Vox, we wanted to highlight the breadth of its coverage
without overwhelming the audience. The components are
medium-sized: not big, but not as small as those in a complex
web app. While hierarchy is still important to draw your eye to
the top story, the size contrast isn’t as dramatic as on the Verge.
    At this point, we’re describing what our experiences should
feel like and how our broad design choices will communicate
those feelings. But we haven’t yet defined specifics, like the
exact pixel size of our typography. By taking the time to define
our levers first, we’ll be able to make better decisions about
our dials later.
    While this process describes how to use levers to make
choices for a new design language, you might not always have
the ability to start from scratch. You can still use the levers to
analyze how well your design language is working to convey
your brand. What levers are you pulling across your products
or websites? Are they the right ones? Are they all working har-
moniously? Asking these questions could reveal parts of your
design language that could be improved.


Making granular design decisions
After deciding on your global settings, you can translate those
decisions to the smaller dials at the composite and basic com-
ponent levels.
   Now, there are a lot of decisions to make when you’re defin-
ing a design language, like choosing a font family and creating



                                C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   65
     a color palette. I’m not going to focus on those choices because
     they’re inherent to design work, not specific to creating a design
     system. Instead, let’s focus on how to define type, spacing, and
     color to reflect the choices you made with size, scale, density,
     and weight.


     Type system
     Type makes up the majority of our user interfaces, making it
     the most pervasive and evocative design element. That means
     that all of the levers will have an impact on your typography.
     Again, we’re going to assume that you or someone else has
     already chosen your brand fonts and that those brand fonts are
     successfully communicating your brand ethos. Now we have
     to turn those fonts into a type system.
        When you’re defining your type system, there are three
     primary decisions you need to make: defining your base font
     size, defining your type hierarchy, and defining your global
     line height.

     • Set a base font size. First, you need to set a base font size.
       The base font size is the size of your body copy and is the
       number that the rest of your type system will be built from.
       Choose a size that makes for a comfortable reading experi-
       ence. Take your “size” lever into account here. If your ele-
       ments are generally large, consider using a higher base font
       size, like 18px. If your elements are generally smaller, go with
       a smaller size (though I wouldn’t go any lower than 14px).
     • Set a scale. Next, create a type scale. Modular type scales size
       scales for typography based on musical interval ratios. Type
       scales are helpful for making your type system feel harmo-
       nious and proportional. To make a type scale, you take your
       base font size and multiply that number by a numeric ratio,
       such as 1.5. You don’t need to do this math on your own. The
       site modularscale.com is a calculator that allows you to set
       your base font size and then outputs a variety of type scales
       based on the ratio you’ve chosen (Fig 3.12). Here’s where our
       levers come into play. If you’ve decided your design language
       needs more size contrast between elements, use a type scale



66   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.12: Two examples of a type scale using modularscale.com. The scale on the left
has much higher contrast between the type headings; the scale on the right has lower
contrast.



  with a high ratio between headings. If your design language
  has less contrast, choose a lower ratio.
• Set your line height. Line height is the distance between
  lines of text. A smaller line height will make text appear
  denser; a higher line height will make it seem airier.

   You can achieve typographic density and weight a couple
of different ways. First, you have to consider the weight of
the fonts themselves. That one is self-explanatory. A heavier
font will feel heavier. A lighter font, lighter. Then, you have
to consider the space around it. Adding lots of space around a
light font will make your layouts feel much airier. Tight spacing
makes layouts feel denser and more urgent.


Spacing system
Your spacing system defines the space within and around your
components. Having a spacing system gives your products



                                     C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   67
     a consistent rhythm and visual balance. It also helps every-
     one using the design system apply space in a consistent way.
     The density lever will have the biggest impact on your spac-
     ing system.
        There are two big decisions you need to make when you’re
     designing a spacing system:

      • Setting a base number. First, you need to set a base number
         that the rest of your scale will be built from. Many teams
         build their spacing on a unit of 4px because it’s easily divisi-
         ble. Even if you choose 4px as your base number, it doesn’t
         have to be the first number in your scale. You could choose
         2px as your first number if you need really tight spacing or
         with 8px if you want looser spacing.
      • Setting the scale. The next step is to decide how the spacing
         system will scale from your base number. Your main options
         are to choose between a linear scale and a nonlinear scale.
         With a linear scale, every step is a fixed increment: 4, 8, 12,
         16, 20, 24, etc. With a nonlinear scale, the system relies on a
         ratio as it increases, just like the modular scale we used for
         type. A nonlinear scale based on a unit of 4 could look like
         this: 4, 8, 16, 32, 48, etc.
         Your density lever will help you figure out what base number
     to start with, as well as how dramatic your size progression
     should be (Fig 3.13). If you want your layout to feel compact,
     start from a smaller base size and only increase your space by
     small increments. If you want your layout to feel airy, start with
     a larger base size and increase your space by larger increments.
     As with our type scale, you get those larger increments by
     multiplying your base font size by a larger ratio number.
         After defining your space system, you need to help people
     understand how to use it.

     • Name your space intervals. Giving your space intervals
       clear names will make it easier for people to use the scale.
       Space is perhaps the element that designers and developers
       go back and forth on the most. Have you ever gone through
       a process where a designer annotates a static design mock
       and hands it over to a developer, who then codes up the



68   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.13: Two examples of a spacing scale based on a unit of 4px. The scale
on the left has less contrast between each size, which will result in a layout
that feels more compact. The scale on the right has more dramatic contrast
between each size, which will produce airier layouts.




  page and hands it back—except the space in the built page
  doesn’t match the space in the annotated design mock? The
  good news about having a spacing system is that it gives both
  disciplines a common language to work from. You could give
  the space descriptive names, like compact, cozy, and airy, but
  you would run out of names quickly. Extra cozy? Super airy?
  Or you could assign T-shirt size names, like extra small, small,
  medium, large, and extra-large. That works if you have just a
  handful of space intervals. The other option is to name space
  numerically, like Space 0 = 0px, Space 1 = 4px, Space 2 = 8px,
  Space 9 = 60px, and so on. This may not be the most creative
  option, but it’s the most straightforward. The benefit is that
  it scales better. If you decide you need to add a larger space
  interval, you can simply add a Space 10, instead of adding
  another extra to that extra-large.
• Define space within and between components. The other
  way to help other designers and developers use your space



                                       C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   69
        scale is by explaining how to apply it to the space within and
        around components. Your guidance can range from broad
        to more specific. For instance, you can say: “Use less space
        within components and more space between containers.” Or
        you might go further and say: “Always use Space 2 between
        elements in a form” and “Use Space 1 between an icon and
        the text in a button.”


     Color system
     The last design element in the trifecta is color. I recommend
     reading Josef Albers’ The Interaction of Color to understand how
     colors influence one another. In it, Albers explains that “colors
     present themselves in continuous flux, constantly related to
     changing neighbors and changing conditions.” When you cre-
     ate a color system, you need not only to consider individual
     colors, but also how they interact. The proximity of colors to
     one another, when they overlap, and how prominently color
     appears on a page—all of these factors influence how people
     use color.
        When determining color values, we look at three things:

     • Hue refers to where the color lives on a color wheel (green,
       red, blue).
     • Saturation refers to the amount of gray mixed into the color.
     • Luminance refers to how much white or black have been
       mixed into the color.

        Usually, you begin to see fragmentation in color systems
     through variations in saturation and luminance. Teams start
     from a primary hue, but then realize it feels too bright for the
     design they’re creating, or the color isn’t luminous enough on
     a dark background, so they create variations (Fig 3.14).
        To prevent this fragmentation, study color across a compo-
     nent hierarchy—look at color values by themselves, in compo-
     nents, on a page, and in interactions. Creating a color system




70   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.14: The Lyft team found fifteen variations of pink across its products. There’s a little
variation in hue, with some colors leaning further toward violet in the color wheel than
others. Mainly, though, we see variation in saturation and luminosity. “Pink 2” is a more
luminous version of “UI Pink.” “Pink 500” is a less saturated version of “Pink 700.” (http://
bkaprt.com/eds/03-04/)



is an incremental process; one change can alter the way you
perceive another color.
   As you define your color system, consider the follow-
ing questions:

 • How should color direct attention? Color directs attention
   in a few ways. It signals actions users can take on the page
   (button and link colors). It conveys the urgency of notifica-
   tions (success, warning, and error colors). And it communi-
   cates interactive states (focus states, in-line validation). How
   many colors do you want to use to signify action? Deciding
   on which color you want to use for your primary and sec-
   ondary actions is a good starting point for figuring out the
   rest of your color system. Let’s say you’ve chosen a bright



                                        C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿     71
       green for your primary-action color. Now let’s think about
       how that color will be perceived in context.
     • How should your foreground and background colors inter-
       act? The bulk of our user interfaces are neutral colors. Our
       neutral tones can have a major influence on how our action
       colors are perceived (Fig 3.15). I recommend experimenting
       with your neutral tones to understand how shifting the hue
       of your grays will impact the rest of your page. Does a cool-
       gray palette make your page feel cold and stark or fresh and
       modern? Does a warm-gray palette feel friendly or dull? That
       will depend greatly on how your foreground and back-
       ground colors interact. A cool-gray palette can feel lively if
       paired with vibrant, warm foreground colors but clinical if
       paired with foreground colors that lack saturation or lumi-
       nosity (Fig 3.16).
     • How prominently should color be used? Then, consider
       how prominently color should be used. You may find that a
       style that works well in isolation doesn’t work when it’s in
       context. For example, a colored icon may look great on its
       own, but when you start to stack the icons in a list, the color
       becomes too overpowering (Fig. 3.17).

        The best way to create a color system that can scale is to
     consider color at every level of a component hierarchy. Look
     at pages with lots of actions and pages with only one action.
     Look at how dark and light background colors shift the way
     your primary colors look. Adjust the hue, saturation, and lumi-
     nosity of your palette until you have a color system that feels
     harmonious.



     ACHIEVING HARMONY
     “Always design a thing by considering it in its next larger con-
     text—a chair in a room, a room in a house, a house in an envi-
     ronment, an environment in a city plan,” said Finnish architect
     Eliel Saarinen (http://bkaprt.com/eds/03-05/). Remember that
     components aren’t used in isolation, but around and within
     each other.



72   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 3.15: Neutrals aren’t neutral. Nudging your grays toward warmer or cooler tones can
help express your brand voice. True medium grays can feel unexpressive if they’re used
too heavily.




Fig 3.16: The green box on a cool gray background (left) appears more luminous; the same
green on a warm gray background (right) feels more muted.




                                     C o mm u n i c at i n g Yo u r B r a n d﻿   73
Fig 3.17: Think about how a color will look in context. This green icon might look great in
isolation, but once it’s on a page as a list, the green color commands much more attention.




               Like all aspects of a design system, achieving harmony isn’t
           a linear process. Use the levers to guide you. You may roll out
           a new header style that makes your pages feel too heavy. What
           can you adjust to reduce that heaviness—either adjust the
           header style or something around it? By considering your brand
           language in layers—the same way we think about components
           in layers—you can ensure that every aspect of your design feels
           branded. As a result, all elements will come together with a
           harmonious brand voice.
               Sometimes our brand voice needs to have separate tones.
           Or we may be designing systems for entirely different brand
           voices. In the next chapter, we’ll talk about how to build vari-
           ations into your design system.




     74    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
4       MAKING ROOM
        FOR VARIATION
Making a brand feel unified, cohesive, and harmoni-
ous while also leaving room for experimentation is a tough
balancing act. It’s one of the most challenging aspects of a
design system.
   Graphic designer and Pentagram partner Paula Scher faced
this challenge with the visual identity for the Public Theater
in New York. As she explained in a talk at Beyond Tellerrand:

  I began to realize that if you made everything the same, it
  was boring after the first year. If you changed it individually
  for each play, the theater lost recognizability. The thing to do,
  which I totally got for the first time after working there at this
  point for 17 years, is what they needed to have were seasons.
     You could take the typography and the color system for the
  summer festival, the Shakespeare in the Park Festival, and you
  could begin to translate it into posters by flopping the colors,
  but using some of the same motifs, and you could create entire
  seasons out of the graphics. That would become its own stan-
  dards manual where I have about six different people making
  these all year (http://bkaprt.com/eds/04-01/).




                                 M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   75
        Scher’s strategy was to retain the Public Theater’s visual
     language every year, but to vary some of its elements (Fig 4.1–2).
     Colors would be swapped. Text would skew in different direc-
     tions. New visual motifs would be introduced. The result is that
     each season coheres in its own way, but so does the identity of
     the Public Theater as a whole.
        Even the most robust or thoroughly planned systems will
     need to account for variation at some point. As soon as you
     release a design system, people will ask you how to deviate
     from it, and you’ll want to be armed with persuasive answers.
     In this chapter, I’m going to talk about what variation means
     for a design system, how to know when you need it, and how
     to manage it in a scalable way.



     WHAT IS VARIATION?
     We’ve spent most of this book talking about the importance
     of unity, cohesion, and harmony in a design system. So why
     are we talking about variation? Isn’t that at odds with all of the
     goals we’ve set until now?
        Variation is a deviation from established patterns, and it
     can exist at every level of the system. At the component level,
     for instance, a team may discover that they need a component
     to behave in a slightly different way; maybe this particular
     component needs to appear without a photo, for example. At a
     design-language level, you may have a team that has a different
     audience, so they want to adjust their brand identity to serve
     that audience better. You can even have variation at the level
     of design principles: if a team is working on a product that is
     functionally different from your core product, they may need
     to adjust their principles to suit that context.
        There are three kinds of deviations that come up in a
     design system:

     • Unintentional divergence typically happens when designers
       can’t find the information they’re looking for. They may not
       know that a certain solution exists within a system, so they
       create their own style. Clear, easy-to-find documentation



76   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.1: The posters for the 2014/15 season featured the wood type style the Public
Theater is known for, but the typography was skewed. The color palette was restrained to
yellow, black, and white, which led to a dynamic look when coupled with the skewed type
(http://bkaprt.com/eds/04-02/).




Fig 4.2: For the 2018 season, the wood type letterforms were extended on a field of
gradated color. The grayscale cut-out photos we saw in the 2014/15 season persisted, but
this time in lower contrast to fit better with the softer color tones (http://bkaprt.com/
eds/04-03/).




                                      M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   77
       and usage guidelines can help your team avoid uninten-
       tional variation.
     • Intentional but unnecessary divergence usually results from
       designers not wanting to feel constrained by the system, or
       believing they have a better solution. Making sure your team
       knows how to push back on and contribute to the system
       can help mitigate this kind of variation.
     • Intentional, meaningful divergence is the goal of an expres-
       sive design system. In this case, the divergence is meaningful
       because it solves a very specific user problem that no existing
       pattern solves.

        We want to enable intentional, meaningful variation. To do
     this, we need to understand the needs and contexts for variation.



     CONTEXTS FOR VARIATION
     Every variation we add makes our design system more compli-
     cated. Therefore, we need to take care to find the right moments
     for variation. Three big contextual changes are served by vari-
     ation: brand, audience, and environment.


     Brand
     If you’re creating a system for multiple brands, each with its
     own brand language, then your system needs to support vari-
     ations to reflect those brands.
        The key here is to find the common core elements and then
     set some criteria for how you should deviate. When we were
     creating the design system for our websites at Vox Media, we
     constantly debated which elements should feel more expres-
     sive. Should a footer be standardized, or should we allow for
     tons of customization? We went back to our core goals: our
     users were ultimately visiting our websites to consume editorial
     content. So the variations should be in service of the content,
     writing style, and tone of voice for each brand.
        The newsletter modules across Vox Media brands were an
     example of unnecessary variation. They were consistent in



78   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.3: Older versions of Vox Media’s newsletter modules contained lots of unnecessary
visual variation.




Fig 4.4: The new, unified newsletter modules.




functionality and layout, but had variations in type, color, and
visual treatments like borders (Fig 4.3). There was quite a bit of
custom design within a very small area: Curbed’s newsletter
component had a skewed background, for example, while Eat-
er’s had a background image. Because these modules were so
consistent in their user goals, we decided to unify their design
and create less variation (Fig 4.4).
   The unified design cleaned up some technical debt. In the
previous design, each newsletter module had CSS overrides to
achieve distinct styling. Some modules even had overrides on
the primary button color so it would work better with the back-
ground color. Little CSS overrides like this add up over time.
Whenever we released a new change, we’d have to manually
update the spots containing CSS overrides.




                                     M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   79
Fig 4.5: Examples of the Verge’s masthead component.




             The streamlined design also placed a more appropriate
          emphasis on the newsletter module. While important, this
          module isn’t the star of the page. It doesn’t need loud back-
          grounds or fancy shapes to command attention, especially
          since it’s placed around article content. Variation in this module
          wasn’t necessary for expressing the brands.
             On the other hand, consider the variation in Vox Media’s
          global header components. When we were redesigning the
          Verge, its editorial teams were vocal about wanting more latitude
          to art-direct the page, guide attention toward big features, and
          showcase custom illustrations. We addressed this by creating a
          masthead component (Fig 4.5) that sits on top of the global
          header on homepages. It contains a logo, tagline, date, and
          customizable background image. Though at the time this was




    80    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.6: The Verge uses two generic components, the masthead and one-up hero, to art-
direct its homepages.




a one-off component, we felt that the variation was valuable
because it would strengthen the Verge’s brand voice.
    The Verge team commissions or makes original art that
changes throughout the day. The most exciting part is that they
can use the masthead and a one-up hero when they drop a big
feature and use these flexible components to art-direct the page
(Fig 4.6). Soon after launch, the Verge masthead even got a
Twitter fan account (@VergeTaglines) that tweets every time
the image changes.
    Though this component was built specifically for the Verge,
it soon gained broader application with other brands that share
Vox’s publishing platform, Chorus. The McElroy Family web-
site, for example, needed to convey its sense of humor and
Appalachian roots; the masthead component shines with an
original illustration featuring an adorable squirrel (Fig 4.7).
    The Chicago Sun-Times—another Chorus platform site—is
very different in content, tone, and audience from The McElroy
Family, but the masthead component is just as valuable in con-
veying the tone of the organization’s high-quality investigative
journalism and breaking news coverage (Fig 4.8).
    Why did the masthead variation work well while the news-
letter variation didn’t? The variations on the newsletter design
were purely visual. When we created them, we didn’t have a
strategy for how variation should work; instead, we were look-



                                     M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   81
Fig 4.7: The McElroy Family site uses the same masthead component as the Verge to
display a custom illustration.




Fig 4.8: The same masthead component on the Chicago Sun-Times site.



          ing for any opportunity to make the brands feel distinct. The
          masthead variation, by contrast, tied directly into the brand
          strategy. Even though it began as a one-off for the Verge, it was
          flexible and purposeful enough to migrate to other brands.


          Audience
          The next contextual variation comes from audience. If your
          products serve different audiences who all need different
          things, then your system may need to adapt to fit those needs.
             A good example of this is Airbnb’s listing pages. In addition
          to their standard listings, they also have Airbnb Plus—one-of-
          a-kind, high quality rentals at higher price points. Audiences
          booking a Plus listing are probably looking for exceptional
          quality and attention to detail.
             Both Airbnb’s standard listing page and Plus listing page are
          immediately recognizable as belonging to the same family
          because they use many consistent elements (Fig 4.9). They both
          use Airbnb’s custom font, Cereal. They both highlight photog-




    82    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.9: The same brand elements in Airbnb’s standard listings (above) are used in their
Plus listings (below), but with variations that make the listing styles distinct.




                                      M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   83
     raphy. They both use many of the same components, like the
     date picker. The iconography is the same.
        However, some of the design choices convey a different atti-
     tude. Airbnb Plus uses larger typography, airier vertical space,
     and a lighter weight of Cereal. It has a more understated color
     palette, with a deeper color on the call to action. These choices
     make Airbnb Plus feel like a more premium experience. You
     can see they’ve adjusted the density, weight, and scale levers to
     achieve a more elegant and sophisticated aesthetic.
        The standard listing page, on the other hand, is more func-
     tional, with the booking module front and center. The Plus
     design pulls the density and weight levers in a lighter, air-
     ier direction. The standard listing page has less size contrast
     between elements, making it feel more functional.
        Because they use the same core building blocks—the same
     typography, iconography, and components—both experiences
     feel like Airbnb. However, the variations in spacing, typo-
     graphic weights, and color help distinguish the standard listing
     from the premium listing.


     Environment
     I’ve mainly been talking about adding variation to a system to
     allow for a range of content tones, but you may also need your
     system to scale based on environmental contexts. “Environ-
     ment” in this context asks: Where will your products be used?
     Will that have an impact on the experience? Environments are
     the various constraints and pressures that surround and inform
     an experience. That can include lighting, ambient noise, passive
     or active engagement, expected focus level, or devices.
        Shopify’s Polaris design system initially grew out of Shopi-
     fy’s Store Management product. When the Shopify Retail team
     kicked off a project to design the next generation point-of-sale
     (POS) system, they realized that the patterns in Polaris didn’t
     exactly fit their needs. The POS system needed to work well in
     a retail space, often under bright lighting. The app needed to be
     used at arm’s length, twenty-four to thirty-six inches away from
     the merchant. And unlike the core admin, where the primary
     interaction is between the merchant and the UI, merchants



84   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
                                                         Fig 4.10: Polaris light
                                                         mode (left) and dark
                                                         mode (right).




using the POS system needed to prioritize their interactions
with their customers instead of the UI. The Retail team wanted
merchants to achieve an “eyes-closed” level of mastery over the
UI so they could maintain eye contact with their customers.
   The Retail team decided that the existing color palette, which
only worked on a light background, would not be clear enough
under the bright lights of a retail shop. The type scale was also
too small to be used at arm’s length. And in order for merchants
to use the POS system without breaking eye contact with cus-
tomers, the buttons and other UI elements would need to be
much larger.
   The Retail team recognized that the current design system
didn’t support a variety of environmental scenarios. But after
talking with the Polaris team, they realized that other teams
would benefit from the solutions they created. The Warehouse
team, for example, was also developing an app that needed to
be used at arm’s length under bright lights. This work inspired
the Polaris team to create a dark mode for the system (Fig 4.10).



                               M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   85
        This feedback loop between product team and design system
     team is a great example of how to build the right variation into
     your system. Build your system around helping your users
     navigate your product more clearly and serving content needs
     and you’ll unlock scalable expression.
        Now that we’ve looked at a few cases where variation
     works, let’s look at how we can make that variation happen in
     a scalable way.



     APPROACHES TO VARIATION
     Although the reasons we need variation in a system may differ,
     the way we achieve variation is the same. We can vary either
     the components or the visual language. Let’s look at both of
     these approaches in turn.


     Varying your components
     As we discussed in Chapter 3, components should be
     designed for flexibility. In his article “Pattern Variations,” Brad
     Frost writes:

        At the heart of a good design system is a set of solid, flexible
        components that can be arranged to create cohesive, delightful
        user interfaces. An effective design system provides components
        that are robust, resilient, flexible, and adaptable (http://bkaprt.
        com/eds/04-04/).

       There are three main ways you can modify components to
     express variation:

     • Content. The most obvious way is to change the content
       being displayed. Text, images, and media that feel tonally
       different will convey a different meaning, even if they’re
       displayed in the same component.
     • Structure. The structure of a component can also change
       depending on context. In Chapter 3, I mentioned how the
       size lever impacts not just the design language, but also the



86   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.11: Compare these three cards from the Guardian. The prominent, beautifully shot
food photography on the left whets the appetite. In the middle, the use of red for news
content indicates that the message is serious. For the opinion piece on the right, the focus
on the columnist suggests that this is a personal essay.




  general size of your elements. A story card, for example,
  could be bigger or smaller to convey a change in hierarchy.
• Style. The component could have different type, color, or
  spacing variations.

   The Guardian uses a variety of card sizes to create hierarchy
on the page and to help a reader gauge a story’s importance (Fig
4.11). Components, too, can contain visual variation to commu-
nicate a difference in tone. While the Guardian uses structure
and style to indicate variation, it’s also important to note how
much the content itself communicates that range. Sometimes
the best strategy for supporting variation is to let the con-
tent speak.


Varying your visual language
Think of theming as a set of interconnected variables that allow
you to represent a brand’s look and feel within your design sys-
tem. Theming makes it possible to flexibly change the appear-
ance of a product without changing the underlying foundation
of components.



                                       M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   87
Fig 4.12: An example of light and dark themes for a general promotion module. Roles,
defined by token names, are consistent, but the individual values vary.




             At Vox, theming allowed us to achieve a wide range of brand
          expression in our design system. Each of the components in
          the system was designed with a default theme to let the team
          focus on things like hierarchy, balance, and layout first. Later,
          each of Vox Media’s brands got its own theme with a custom
          color palette, typography, and spacing scale.
             Theming let us express the visual language for all of our
          brands in a scalable way. It consisted of a few layers:

           • Tokens: A code identifier for each role, like $text.
           • Role: The systematic usage of a token. We might give $text
             the role of “primary text color.”
           • Value: The actual value of that style, such as an individual
             hex code assigned to a token. For example, $text’s individual
             hex code could be #333333.

             Theming works by assigning a token to every element in
          your UI. Tokens and roles don’t change, but values can be cus-
          tomized according to brand (Fig 4.12). For example, you could
          say that your primary text color will always use the $text color
          token, which will keep your system aligned as you create new
          variations (Fig 4.13).
             For theming to work, you need to give your tokens semantic
          rather than descriptive names. If your buttons have a back-




    88    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
                                                                LIGHT          DARK
                                                                THEME          THEME
 TOKEN                            ROLE                          VALUE          VALUE
 $background                      Page background              #EEEEEE         #000000

 $surface                         Component background         #FFFFFF         #152935

 $text                            Primary text                 #000000         #FFFFFF

 $text-muted                      Muted text                   #3E5269         #DFE6EB

 $interactive-action              Primary action               #3D70B2         #5AAAFA

 $interactive-on-text             Primary action text          #FFFFFF         #FFFFFF


Fig 4.13: Here’s how the tokens, roles, and values line up for the light and dark themes in
Fig 4.12.




ground color of $color-blue, you’ll run into trouble down the
line if you have to create a theme or if your brand colors change.



BUILDING THEMES
Before you can begin creating themes, you need to determine
an approach to your theming. What degree of theming are you
going to allow? Let’s think back to the levers and dials from
Chapter 3. Are you going to let people just turn a few dials or
pull the big levers? There are two approaches you can take:

• Theme only your dials. One approach is to allow only the
  dials to be themed. In other words, you could allow for
  customization on type and color but nothing else—it would
  essentially be a applying a skin on top of the same interface.
  This approach is valuable if you’re creating a white-label
  product and want your customer to use their own colors,
  but otherwise keep the rest of the design elements the same.
• Theme your dials and levers. Or, you could allow for both
  the dials and levers to be themed. In addition to allowing for



                                       M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   89
Fig 4.14: The same component as in Fig 4.12. This time, though, we’ve changed the
primary font to the very narrow Druk Condensed Super. As you can see, once you start
changing type, other levers need to adjust around it.




              color and type to be customized, you could also allow for
              global scale and sizing to be adjusted.

             Color is the only dial you can successfully change without
          changing anything else. Unless you’re swapping out fonts that
          have exactly the same metrics, you’ll have to change spacing if
          fonts are altered (Fig 4.14).
             We can use all of the foundations of creating a design lan-
          guage to create themes. Our trifecta of type, space, and color
          contains the most common elements to define for expres-
          sive themes.


          Theming type
          If only theming type could be as simple as swapping in a dif-
          ferent font and calling it a day! But because typefaces vary so
          wildly, it’s hard to change a font without making other signifi-
          cant changes to the design system. Fonts vary in optical sizing;
          even if two fonts are set at the same pixel value, an optically
          small typeface appears smaller than an optically large typeface.



    90    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.15: Fonts vary in vertical metrics and optical sizing. That makes theming them a
challenge.




The optical sizing depends on each typeface’s physical charac-
teristics. A font with a small x-height, for example, looks smaller
than a font with a large x-height.
   The other problem with theming type is that all fonts have
different vertical metrics (http://bkaprt.com/eds/04-05/). Every
font file contains mathematical instructions that describe how
to space each character, including the amount of room a glyph
should consume relative to its specified size and the amount of
space around it. That’s a long-winded way of saying that fonts
have different space built into them (Fig 4.15). You will be
bewildered and astounded the first time you try to vertically
align two fonts within one button component, I promise.
   Theming type is challenging, but it’s not impossible. Here’s
what I’ve learned about how to make it work.


Assign your tokens and roles
The first thing you need to do is assign your type tokens
and roles.

• How many categories of fonts do you need? For our type
  system at Vox Media, we knew we wanted four categories
  of fonts. $font1 was for story titles and headings within the
  body of an article. $font2 was for the body copy. $font3 was




                                      M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   91
     Fig 4.16: Mapping your type sizes to elements on the page means your type
     will always be proportional, even if the individual values change.




       for the page or section headings. $font4 was for metadata
       and UI copy like tags, captions, timestamps, and button text.
     • Which of these categories should be themed? You could
       allow for custom fonts for each of these categories, or you
       could restrict some choices and only allow theming for a
       few categories. I can imagine an instance where you would
       let the heading font be customized but want to leave all UI
       fonts the same, if you’ve found a good UI font that works
       well across the board.




92   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
• Decide on your type sizes and proportions. When you allow
  type to be themed, you need to be deliberate about what
  choices will be baked into the system and what choices you’ll
  allow others to make. For our type system, we decided we
  would let teams change the baseline font size and the font
  ratio, but the role of type sizes would need to be consistent.
  We used our existing article page to determine how many
  type sizes we would need (Fig 4.16). The headline, for exam-
  ple, would use the Size 8 value while the byline would use
  the Size 1 value. This meant that one brand could have 44px
  as its Size 8 and another could have 64px, but the headline
  would always remain in proportion to the relative size of the
  other type on the page.


Theming type sizes
Once you’ve assigned the type sizes to roles, you need to allow
teams to customize those type sizes. You have two options here:

1. Let teams choose each of those values individually. This
   gives teams more control. They can rely on optical sizing to
   choose the values that make the most sense for each font.
   The downside is that this is a dial-setting approach. And as
   we’ve learned, setting type by making too many granular
   choices can make your overall system feel disharmonious.
2. Let teams change the base font size and font ratio. In other
   words, you’re letting them choose a font scale. This reduces
   the number of choices from ten to two. It also encourages
   designers to think about the big levers they want to pull,
   making their type feel more purposeful. The higher the
   font ratio, the larger the size contrast you’ll have between
   type headings (Fig 4.17). A font ratio of 1.125 will have less
   size contrast between headings than a font ratio of 1.333
   (Fig 4.18). If the designers of one product decide they need
   a smaller size contrast between type sizes, they can choose
   the font ratio that will enable that.




                               M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   93
Fig 4.17: A site with long headlines and less contrast between its heading and body copy
(left) might want to use a font ratio with less contrast. A more condensed typeface paired
with smaller typefaces (right) would benefit from a greater font-ratio contrast.




Fig 4.18: Two different type scales that vary in the contrast of their headings. The left has
a font ratio of 1.125 (minor third) and the right has a font ratio of 1.333 (perfect fourth).




     94    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   Earlier, I mentioned that the trickiest part of theming text is
dealing with the variations in the space around the text. If you
theme type, you also need to allow for the space around the
type to be adjusted. At Vox, the way we solved this was by
theming the space around the type.


Theming space
You want space to be themed as a lever, not as dials. The global
spacing in your design system should feel holistic. If you have
really tight spacing in some components and really loose spac-
ing in others, your pages will feel erratic.
   A team might want to theme space for a few reasons:

• They’re creating a task-driven experience and need com-
  pact spacing.
• They’re creating a marketing, brochure, or editorial experi-
  ence and want more open spacing.
• They want the spacing to change based on device sizing.

   Having a set of three density settings for your components
could help people theme space in a way that feels consistent.
Why three? You don’t want to build in too much variety. Having
a compact space scale, default space scale, and loose space scale
covers the most common variations.
   Gmail’s density settings provide a good example (Fig 4.19).
In this case, they give the end user the option to adjust the
layout’s density. For your purposes, you may choose to build
density settings into your components to allow internal teams
to choose the density that works best for the experience they’re
solving for.
   Let’s look again at our general promotion module (Fig 4.20).
First, we can decide the relationship of space between elements.
In this case, we want a larger unit of space before and after the
content. Within the content, we want to use a slightly smaller
unit of space.
   We can define the vertical space in a card by choosing a
number from our space scale (Fig 4.21). Regardless of the actual
size of the spacing unit, we know there will be more space



                               M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   95
Fig 4.19: Gmail’s density settings are a good example of how space can be themed
holistically.




Fig 4.20: When theming space, first map your components to space sizes and then allow
the spacing scale to be adjusted.




          above the headline and below the button. The card on the left
          uses the small space scale while the card on the right uses the
          large space scale. The card on the left is using the “Default”
          spacing scale, which means there will be 24px around the con-
          tent and 16px between the content. Let’s say another team is
          using the design system, but they want to use the “Loose” space
          scale instead of “Default.” They can select that space scale glob-
          ally, and the general promotion module will automatically use
          the pixel values from the “Loose” scale.



    96    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
 SIZE                    COMPACT                DEFAULT                LOOSE
 0                       0×0                    0×0                    0×0

 1                       2×2                    4×4                    8×8

 2                       4×4                    8×8                    12 × 12

 3                       8×8                    12 × 12                16 × 16

 4                       12 × 12                16 × 16                24 × 24

 5                       16 × 16                24 × 24                32 × 32

Fig 4.21: An example of five sizes on a space scale. The “Loose” scale has larger values
while the “Compact” scale has smaller values.



Theming color
Color theming means changing the color values in an interface
to match an individual brand’s design language. There are two
approaches for color theming:

1. Allow foreground colors to be changed, but not the back-
   ground color.
2. Allow both foreground and background colors to be themed.

   Theming only the foreground colors is much simpler, but
also more limited. You would typically choose just a few areas
where you’ll allow customization. In this case, you could say
that $brand-01 will be customizable, but every other color will
stay the same. Then, you would specify all of the areas that
will use $brand-01. This is the minimum amount of theming
possible, and it’s good for when you want to give teams a small
amount of customization—the variations will feel pretty similar
across the board (Fig 4.22).
   Theming both the background and foreground gets trickier.
You’ll notice I talk a lot about reducing the number of choices
teams need to make when deciding on theme values. There’s a
good reason for my reluctance to open up a world of options
when it comes to theming.



                                       M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   97
Fig 4.22: An example of only theming the foreground colors.




             When we created our first color system at Vox Media, we
          allowed for many, many options. Practically every element of
          the page had a color variable associated with it (Fig 4.23). The
          navigation started with $nav-background-color, $nav-fore-
          ground-color. Okay, sensible enough—but it progressed. $nav-
          link-color. $nav-link-color-hover. Then, we got to our
          dropdowns: $nav-dropdown-bg-color, $nav-dropdown-fg-
          color, $nav-dropdown-link-color, $nav-dropdown-link-
          hover-color. Just remembering this makes me sweat. And
          these were only the color variables in the navigation. All in all,
          we ended up with almost three hundred different variables.
             Our thinking was: “Let’s give designers control! They’re
          experts at choosing colors and will make much better choices
          than a machine.” In reality, though, this degree of choice was
          completely overwhelming. We ended up with lots of inconsis-
          tency, and a ton of visual QA tickets.
             There’s a better way to theme colors: color groups.




    98    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 4.23: These are granular color variables. Don’t do this!




Color groups
The idea of color groups is that you define foreground colors
based on their background colors. Then you apply a color group
to a component. For example, instead of setting individual
values for every single element in our navigation, we would
assign it the “dark” color group.

• Decide how many types of background colors you need.
  Light and dark are the most common types of background
  colors, especially for complex applications when the pri-
  mary goal of your theming is to switch between a “light”
  and “dark” mode. Editorial or content sites tend to use more
  colored backgrounds behind cards or containers. At Vox
  Media, we opted for four backgrounds: light, dark, bright,
  and muted.
• Choose the background color values. Decide the color val-
  ues for each of these background colors. For example, the
  “light” background hex value could be #ffffff.
• Decide how many types of foreground colors you need. We
  used $primary-foreground for the more prominent text,
  $secondary-foreground for less prominent text, $accent
  for supplementary text (like tags), and $link for links.
• Choose values for the foreground colors for each color
  group. Now comes the part where you really put your color
  groups together. Start with one of your background colors
  and define each of the foreground color values (Fig 4.24). As
  you create each group, remember to test the accessibility
  of the color combinations to make sure the foreground and
  background colors are accessible when used together.



                                       M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   99
Fig 4.24: Examples of dark and light color groups and how they map to components.




              It makes much more sense to group colors than to define
          every color individually. The groupings help people think about
          color holistically when they create a theme, which leads to
          more consistency: a link color will always be the same when
          it’s on a dark background.
              The color groups also mean you have one source of truth
          when it comes to testing the accessibility of your color palette.
          If your color groups are accessible, then the color on your site
          will also be accessible. If you have an inaccessible color com-
          bination, you can fix that in your color group so that it will
          permeate the entire site.



   100    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   Color is a powerful tool when it comes to theming. But
please—vary responsibly and don’t create three hundred cus-
tomizable values for color.



SYSTEM LAYERS
Design systems shouldn’t be static—they should be able to
flex and change over time. We are building design systems for
products that need to change rapidly. To succeed, we need to
account for change. Part of allowing for variation in a system is
defining where change should happen most frequently.
   In the book How Buildings Learn, Stewart Brand explains that
different timescales can have an effect on a building:

   Our basic argument is that there isn’t any such thing as a build-
   ing. A building properly conceived is several layers of longevity
   of built components.

    The layers Brand describes are site, structure, skin, services,
space plan, and stuff, ordered by an increasing frequency of
evolution. Site, the location of a building, never changes, while
stuff—chairs, desks, phones, etc.—can change often.
    Thinking of our design systems in terms of layers that change
at different frequencies can help us support variation in a scal-
able way. For instance, changing your underlying brand prin-
ciples would mean that every other part of your system would
need to change, too. Changing your grid would impact layouts.
    Design systems don’t need to stifle creativity or limit brand
expression. You have a vast array of tools to express brand.
Choose the ones that will serve your brand purpose best and
focus on turning them into signature patterns.
    Up to this point, we’ve focused on how to create a design
system. However, we can’t see the benefits of the system until
it’s integrated into real products. In the next chapter, we’ll look
at how to use a design system.




                                  M a k i n g R o o m f o r Va r i at i o n﻿   101
5     MANAGING
      DESIGN SYSTEMS
      A good design system helps you improvise. Think of it
      like cooking: if you’ve done all the prep work ahead of time—
      chopped your vegetables, measured your spices—then you can
      start improvising as you assemble your ingredients.
         Following this metaphor, your design system is your pantry,
      not your cookbook. You have space to create your own recipe,
      to add more garlic or less salt if you want to, but you won’t
      switch to an entirely different cuisine because you won’t have
      those ingredients.
         How do you build a system people want to use? One that
      helps people improvise? That empowers but doesn’t constrain?
      If we focus on what people need, it makes our systems stronger.
         The best example I’ve heard of what it feels like to use a bad
      design system is this: “It’s like having to use a hammer when
      you actually need a screwdriver.” We don’t want the users of
      our system stuck using the wrong tool for the job.




102   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
THE RIGHT TOOL FOR THE JOB
The worst thing we can do with a design system is create
a bunch of tools that don’t solve our team’s problems. Take
care to choose the right component hierarchy for the scale of
your team.
    Let’s pretend we’re in the business of making chairs instead
of digital products. If I give my team pre-cut pieces of a chair, in
the shape of a seat, a back, and legs, with an instruction manual
telling them how to put the chair together, they will all build the
same chair. But what if I just give my team the materials—oak
planks, nails, paint—along with some guidelines about how to
make a comfortable chair? We may end up with several chairs
that look different, but they will still feel like they’re part of the
same family because they’re built with the same materials and
the same guidelines.
    If you’re creating a design system for several teams, each
with its own designers and developers, you’ll want to give
those teams the freedom to design their own chairs. The system
shouldn’t limit them from creating the best possible experience.
Basic components with guiding principles about how to craft
good experiences give teams that flexibility.
    Should your system contain more basic components or
more composite components? That depends on the size of your
product team, the breadth of your products, and the reach of
your design system. If you look at Bootstrap, a system used
by teams around the world, you’ll see that it mainly has basic
components (Fig 5.1). These components are flexible and gen-
eral, which allows teams to combine components in a much
more flexible way.
    At the opposite end of the spectrum, you may have a small
team working on a system to make building and maintaining a
single product more efficient. The team maintaining the system
may be the same team that uses it to build products. In this case,
having a small collection of composite components, tailored to
the team’s product objectives, might be enough.
    Mailchimp’s design system has a handful of patterns that
repeat throughout their product. Seven of their eleven compo-
nents are composites (Fig 5.2). It would be difficult for a team



                                    M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿   103
Fig 5.1: Bootstrap has a very broad reach, so its components are unstyled and fairly small.




           outside of Mailchimp to drop one of these components into
           their product, because they are so specific to Mailchimp’s prod-
           uct needs.
              If you fall somewhere in the middle—if you have multiple
           teams building multiplatform products, say—it’s best to start
           with basic components and expand from there. If you make
           components that are too large, too inflexible, or too singularly
           focused, users will end up creating their own patterns.
              You also need to think about the types of product teams that
           will be using your system. Some product teams within your
           organization may have more design and development resources
           than others. A team with more designers and developers will
           be able to modify and create new components more easily than
           a team with limited resources. If this is the case for your team,



   104     EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
Fig 5.2: Mailchimp’s design system has patterns that are highly specific to their product.




consider providing product teams with options: either consume
existing composite components out of the box, or assemble a
component using a set of basic components.



EVOLVING PATTERNS FROM PRODUCTS
Design systems shouldn’t be static, especially if you start with
a narrow scope. After you’ve released a system, it’s important
to monitor how it’s working in products. Good systems evolve
from real-world contexts.
   The best way to evolve your design system is to test it in
real products. Product teams are deeply knowledgeable about
solving specific user problems. The systems team has the abil-
ity to see across product teams, finding common patterns and
building scalable solutions. As Christopher Alexander said in A
Pattern Language, “Patterns stay alive because the people who
are using them are also testing them.”
   Let’s take a look at this real-world testing in action. My team
at Shopify was approached by a product team that had found a
limitation to a design-system pattern. The logistics team at
Shopify needed a way to warn users that they had to finish
setting up their account details before they could use a payment



                                          M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿        105
Fig 5.3: We had never tested a banner within a card before. This combination of
components created too much space around the banner.




Fig 5.4: Designers from the logistics and Polaris teams worked together to create a
simplified banner that fits better within a card. After some testing, that banner variation
was added to Polaris for other teams to use.




   106     EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
service. So the team used a component for displaying the user’s
information (a card) and a component for displaying a warning
(a banner). There was just one problem: the banner component
hadn’t been tested within a card, so the spacing around it was
too generous (Fig 5.3).
    A designer on the logistics team came to the Polaris team
with the question, “How can we adapt banners in cards to keep
the same style, but not lose out on so much space?” They pro-
posed a change, then paired with a designer on the Polaris team
to refine the styles. They iterated designs together in Sketch via
video call (the Polaris team is remote) before coming to a solu-
tion for a simplified banner that would work in a card (Fig 5.4).
    The logistics team then created a fork of this component
to test in their product. After the component was deemed
successful, it was folded back into the system for the benefit
of other teams.
    It’s impossible to anticipate all of the features your sys-
tem will need up front. If you’ve set up a clear feedback loop
between a systems team and a product team, then you will be
able to evolve your system organically. A good feedback loop
starts with clear communication across teams.



GETTING BUY-IN
Introducing a design system means that some of the choices
individuals were responsible for making before will now be
handled by the system. More specifically, it means that you are
now responsible for making decisions that people have been
used to making themselves. Some people will be excited by this;
others may resent losing that control.
   However, if people feel like their needs are reflected in the
system—if they feel like they were included in the process of
creating it—then they’ll be more likely to use it.

• Include people in your planning exercises. The planning
  exercises in the beginning of the book were designed with
  buy-in firmly in mind. Involving people from product teams
  to take part in the mission statement exercise will give you



                                  M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿   107
        an idea of where they think the system could add the most
        value. The ecosystem-mapping exercise is also useful for
        group alignment. It helps draw connections between lack
        of consistency and a confusing user experience.
      • Change your approach for different disciplines. I’m going
        to make a generalization here: developers tend to care about
        efficiency more than designers do. The software principle of
        “Don’t repeat yourself ” (DRY) aims at reducing repetition of
        software patterns and translates very well to the concept of
        a design system. Because of this, I’ve found it much easier
        to sell developers on the concept of a design system. It’s
        not that designers don’t care about efficiency, but our core
        need to be creative sometimes trumps efficiency. When
        selling a design system to designers, focus your messaging
        around how a design system can help them make better
        user experiences and free them up to focus on more inno-
        vative problems.
      • Keep up your onboarding. You’ve done all of this work
        to sell people on the value of a design system at the very
        beginning of the project. Everyone is on board. Except teams
        aren’t static. What do you do when new people join and
        they don’t understand why the system exists? You need to
        plan for how you want to introduce your design system to
        new team members. Creating some onboarding material
        that introduces the concept of the system, why it’s valuable,
        and how to use it will help you get buy-in every time a new
        person joins the team.



      GOVERNANCE AND FEEDBACK
      Some say the greatest risk to a design system is lack of adop-
      tion—but rapid adoption without a plan for how you’ll maintain
      the system is just as dangerous.
         Part of this challenge lies in the fact that the skills it takes
      to build a design system are different from the skills it takes to
      maintain a system. After you’ve finished your planning, you get
      into a flow state of creating and documenting new components.
      The design-system team is almost in pure making mode. Once



108   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
you release a system for other teams to use, this making mode
diminishes. Suddenly you have to be in support mode. You
could see your configuration of time go from a hundred percent
making to sixty percent support and forty percent making. This
rapid shift can sometimes come as a shock.

• Decide what skills you need to maintain the system. How
  do they differ from the skills it took to make the system?
  When you’re making a system, most of the work is design
  and development. Once you’re maintaining a system, espe-
  cially one that’s gotten widespread adoption and needs to
  function as a product, then you need some different roles.
  Product management to manage a backlog and maintain a
  roadmap. Community management to handle community
  support, like communicating releases and answering ques-
  tions. Data and research, to understand adoption rates and
  see how well your system is doing.
• Rotate people. You may also find that the people who were
  really excited about creating the design system are less jazzed
  about needing to spend most of their time supporting people
  using the system. Rotating people from the product teams to
  the systems team and from the systems team to the product
  teams can be healthy. By moving someone from the systems
  team to a product team, you have someone well-versed in the
  system who can advocate for it on the other side. Product
  team members, in turn, have all of the context about how
  to use the system to ship products. Rotating them onto the
  systems team can help make the system stronger because
  they know the low points of using the system.


Design-system ambassadors
One way to evolve your system is to have systems thinkers
work on products. People who are invested in the growth and
success of the system can be your eyes and ears on the ground—
identifying gaps in the system and bringing that knowledge
back to the systems team.
   Companies like Etsy, GOV.UK, and Sprout Social have all
created a version of a “design-systems ambassador program.”



                                 M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿   109
      In an interview with me, Ben Lister, design-systems lead at
      Sprout Social, outlined the benefits they’ve seen from their
      design-system ambassadors program:

        Our Design System Ambassadors are designers from across
        the organization that act as liaisons between their embedded
        teams and the design systems team. They are our eyes, ears,
        and voice across the company. Design System Ambassadors
        not only define and document their team’s design patterns and
        components, but they also take ownership of them, keep their
        team synced on design system initiatives, and uncover ways to
        include design system work on their team’s roadmaps.

         The GOV.UK design system has a “design-system working
      group” composed of multidisciplinary representatives from
      across government (http://bkaprt.com/eds/05-01/). Formed to
      ensure that the design system effectively represents its users,
      the GOV.UK working group:

             • reviews proposals and contributions against the contri-
               bution criteria
             • makes recommendations to help contributors improve
               their work
             • advocates for the needs of colleagues across government

         The goal of an ambassadors group is to decide on the road-
      map for the design system. Ambassadors should vote on what
      the design systems team will work on next.
         To set up your own design-system ambassadors group, focus
      on people in your company who show a marked interest in
      your design system. Are some people always asking questions
      and adding contributions? Start with the folks who are the
      most invested.


      Governance models
      After a system is in place, who is responsible for it—for main-
      taining it, evolving it, and providing support for it?




110   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   Nathan Curtis (http://bkaprt.com/eds/05-02/) and Jina Anne
(http://bkaprt.com/eds/05-03/) have written in depth about
the various types of governance models for a design system.
They’ve broken governance models into four categories:

• Solitary: A solitary model works well for a design system
  built by one team, primarily to serve its own needs.
• Centralized: A centralized model is a single, central team
  that produces and supports a system used by others. A cen-
  tralized team can identify broader systems needs affecting
  many product teams, but may lack sufficient context into the
  day-to-day work of creating products.
• Federated: A federated model has designers from multiple
  product teams deciding on the system together. A federated
  team has context, but lacks the clear ownership that a cen-
  tralized team has.
• Cyclical: This model is a combination of a centralized and
  federated model, where you have a centralized team whose
  primary responsibility is to maintain the system, but you
  welcome and encourage contributions from product teams.

   The cyclical model sounds ideal, right? You get all of the
benefits of using the system in context but also the ability to
see across product lines to identify system needs.
   Making this work, however, is harder than it seems. For
starters, it can be very difficult for the systems team to get that
perspective on every product team roadmap, and thus difficult
for them to identify recurring problems. Also, product teams
are focused on shipping their individual products quickly. They
use the system because it’s efficient, but they may not have the
time or energy to contribute back to the system.
   In order to make the cyclical model work, you need to be
thoughtful about how you’ll maintain the system—how you’ll
build trust, find advocates, and encourage contribution.


Providing support
The systems team needs to play an active role in supporting
product teams. It’s not enough to publish a component. You



                                   M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿   111
      need to enable product teams to provide feedback on the com-
      ponent’s performance, and use that feedback to evolve compo-
      nents iteratively over time.
         Part of building a community around the design system is
      helping product teams know how they can collaborate with
      you. If you’re a centralized systems team, you should set up
      some communication channels so people know where to go
      when they have questions:

      • Choose a channel for quick questions and conversations
        about the design system. For instance, you could set up a
        Slack channel for ad hoc feedback, ideas, and questions.
      • Organize bigger collaboration sessions. These could take
        the form of office hours, open-door policies, or training
        sessions. At Shopify, the Polaris team has design-system
        office hours every Monday; people can sign up for a short
        session to walk through how they can solve a problem using
        the design system.

         These communication channels are all about building trust
      with the teams using your system. The design system grows
      stronger when people contribute to it—and people are more
      likely to contribute if they feel invested in the success of the
      system. Decide on which contribution models make the most
      sense for your team and then clearly broadcast them.
         A word of warning: it’s also easy to over-index here and
      give people more support than they need. In some cases, you
      may not want to walk someone through all of the ten steps
      they need to take to solve a problem. Suggest a first step, point
      them toward the documentation, and empower them to solve
      the problem themselves.


      Encouraging contribution
      If you’re on a design-systems team, one of the main things
      you’ll have to deal with is helping people understand how they
      can contribute to the system. The design system shouldn’t be
      a barrier to creating the best possible user experiences. It’s
      important to clarify how the system can evolve.



112   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
    At the beginning of this book, I mentioned that expressive
design systems should inspire use. In order for your design
system to evolve, product teams need to be using patterns in
their products and contributing back to the system. One way
of contributing back is by shipping code into the system, either
via a bug fix or by submitting a new component. But developers
aren’t the only ones who can contribute to a system. Designers,
researchers, content strategists, and others can contribute by
providing feedback when they find inconsistencies. They can
make a suggestion to improve a component if they’ve done their
own user testing. They can suggest a revision to documentation
if existing content is unclear. Communicate to your teams that
contributions can take many forms and can come from anyone.
    Be mindful of the reasons people might not use or contrib-
ute back to a system. Teams are busy pushing on their own
roadmaps and may not have time to contribute back. They may
lack the confidence, motivation, or permission to contribute.
Perhaps they perceive the systems team as gatekeepers.
    Answering a few questions will help solicit more contributions:

• Why should you contribute? “Isn’t maintaining the system
  the system team’s responsibility? I’m busy over here trying
  to ship this update to my product.” Help people understand
  that their expertise and context are critical to maintaining a
  strong system. Remember, you don’t need to do this alone.
  If you’ve done a good job at getting buy-in from stakehold-
  ers, especially discipline leadership, you can lean on their
  support to advocate for why contributing back to the system
  matters. At Shopify, contributing back to the design system
  is baked into people’s job descriptions, so the expectation
  for collaboration is set from the very beginning.
• How should you contribute? “I have something I want to
  contribute. What do I do with it?” Point people in the right
  direction. The GOV.UK design system contains a “Commu-
  nity” section with information about how to propose a new
  component or pattern (Fig 5.5). They also include contribu-
  tion criteria that help people decide if they should pitch a
  new pattern. The criteria specify that a pattern should be
  useful for several teams and not replicate an existing pattern.



                                   M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿   113
Fig 5.5: GOV.UK’s Community section includes information about the process for
proposing a new pattern.



           • Make a big deal when someone contributes. Remember that
             you want to get continual buy-in for your design system.
             When someone contributes something meaningful back to
             the system, celebrate it. That could include making contri-
             bution stickers or making an announcement in Slack.
             Emphasize that this was a shared win. People will want to
             be part of the celebration.



          START WITH A SIMPLE SYSTEM
          When you create an expressive design system, you’re not just
          creating reusable components—you’re operationalizing design
          across an organization. Successful design systems have three
          major parts: components, guidelines for how the components
          can be used, and a governance model that unifies the teams that
          use and contribute to the system.




   114    EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
   Instead of focusing intently on just one of these areas—like,
say, shipping a UI library with hundreds of components—build
your system by starting small in each.
   Remember Gall’s law, which John Gall suggested in his book
Systemantics as a rule of thumb for building systems:

   A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved
   from a simple system that worked. A complex system designed
   from scratch never works and cannot be patched up to make
   it work. You have to start over with a working simple system.

    A working simple system contains a few components (with
guidelines on how to use them) that have been integrated into
products. Until you complete the cycle of designing, building,
releasing, and integrating the components, you won’t have a
complete system. Once a few components are functional and
integrated, you can evolve from there.
    This is especially important because you want people to
evolve the system. A system that feels too robust or complete
may intimidate teams. They may feel discouraged from adapting
it. Instead, focus on providing a core simple system and allow
teams to improvise. That way, your system will become a con-
tinual loop between the systems team and the product teams.
    Design systems shouldn’t suppress creativity. In Thinking in
Systems, Donella Meadows explains how the greatest complex-
ities of systems arise at their boundaries: forest species extend
beyond the edge of the forest into the field and field species
extend into the forest. That leads to new species with unique
compositions that inherit the qualities from both the forest
and the field. Borders contain the greatest sources of diversity
and creativity.
    Pay attention to the borders of your design system. How are
people combining existing system elements with custom styles
to create new components? How are people using the system in
unexpected ways to solve problems? How are people tweaking
styles that exist? You may find that multiple teams have started
to add another type heading style or a brighter variation on
your primary color. Study those behaviors and use them to




                                    M a n a gi n g Desig n S ys t ems﻿   115
      guide the evolution of your system. If you enable creativity
      at the boundaries, your system will grow and stay expressive.




116   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
CONCLUSION
Levittown is known as the first true American suburb.
Not one town, in fact, but seven planned communities in New
York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, and Puerto Rico,
the Levittowns were designed by William Levitt with the goal
of making housing affordable for Americans after World War II.
   Levitt made housing affordable through standardization: the
houses were exactly the same, with a white picket fence, green
lawns, and modern appliances. With built-in TVs and heated
floors, all of the features of these homes evoked an idealistic
view of suburban life. Production of the homes was modeled
on assembly lines; building each home took twenty-seven steps,
with each construction worker trained to perform just one.
Standardization saved on costs, so houses were built quickly
and inexpensively, and more people were able to afford homes.
It was the American dream!
   Except it wasn’t the American dream for everyone. Levitt
refused to sell houses to people of color; the Levittowns were
segregated communities. Levitt famously said, “We can solve
a housing problem or we can try to solve a racial problem, but
we can’t do both.”
   Around the same time, another developer, Morris Milgram,
had a different mission—to create housing for everyone. His
suburb, Concord Park, had the same idyllic features of Levit-
town, white picket fences and all. But Milgram set out to create
a racially inclusive neighborhood, making the dream of the
suburban life accessible to all Americans.
   Systems aren’t neutral. Systems reflect the values of the
people who make the system.




                                                  C o n c lu si o n   117
         Your company’s design system is more than a set of tools.
      Through its components, guidelines, and patterns, it tells a
      story about what your organization values. In other words,
      your design system reflects your organization. You have an
      opportunity—and an imperative—to use your design system
      to make your products more inclusive. Once something is in a
      system, it travels fast. A decision to bake accessibility into your
      components from the outset is a big step toward making your
      products more accessible.
         You can’t do this unless a heterogeneous group of people
      contributes to your design system. Pay attention to the demo-
      graphics of your design-system contributors. Do they represent
      a range of disciplines and backgrounds? If not, then you need
      to make an effort to reach out to the people who aren’t con-
      tributing and understand why they’re reluctant. Do they feel
      intimidated? Are the methods of contribution unclear? The
      more diverse the people who help shape your system are, the
      stronger and more inclusive your system will be.
         Design systems are powerful. Use that power responsibly.




118   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Writing a book had always been a “someday” goal for me,
but I never would have written this without the encouragement
of Katel LeDû. Thank you for believing in me.
   Lisa Maria Marquis was my editor—an amazing partner in
this process who helped me shape my thoughts into a clear
narrative, pushed me to write more words, and patiently talked
through concepts with me. This book is a million times better
because of you.
   Thank you to Caren Litherland for the editing, feedback, and
skillful wordsmithing.
   To Sophie Shepherd, Katie Kovalcin, and Alison Harsh-
barger: thank you for the feedback, encouragement, and sup-
port throughout this entire process. I cherish our friendship.
Let’s plan an actual relaxing vacation now.
   I’ve had the privilege to work with some of the brightest
minds in the industry at Vox Media and now at Shopify. There
are too many of you to name, but I’m so grateful for the oppor-
tunity to learn, grow, and make mistakes with you.
   Maya Benari, Ben Lister, and Paul Murphy generously shared
their experience and insights in my early research for this book.
Thank you!
   To Nicole Sullivan, Jina Anne, Mina Markham, and Alla
Kholmatova: you’ve all been profound influences on how I
think about design systems. The design systems community is
indebted to the work that you’ve all done.
   To my family: thank you for your endless support and love,
for teaching me to work hard but also reminding me to laugh.
Everything I do is for you.
   To my husband, Justin: writing a book while working a
full-time job meant that you didn’t get to see very much of
me for nearly a year, or when you did see me, I was very, very
stressed. Thank you for being patient and supportive through-
out. I love you!




                                          Ac k n ow l e d gme n t s   119
      RESOURCES
      Here are some resources that have shaped my thinking
      on systems and design. They’ll encourage you to dig deeper
      into the topics we’ve covered and will help you expand your
      thinking on design systems.


      Systems thinking
      We’re surrounded by systems. The following resources aren’t
      specifically about design systems. Instead, they examine var-
      ious types of systems in our lives—how they thrive and how
      they fail.

      • Thinking in Systems by Donella Meadows. This is an acces-
        sible primer on systems thinking. It will help you learn the
        conceptual tools and methods behind systems thinking and
        how you can use them to drive change. These methods are
        valuable as we try to implement and gain adoption for a
        design system.
      • A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander. A Pattern
        Language has been incredibly influential in design-systems
        thinking. What’s most interesting to me is how patterns
        connect to other patterns to solve a problem.
      • The Timeless Way of Building by Christopher Alexander. If A
        Pattern Language documents patterns, The Timeless Way of
        Building provides the framework and philosophy underpin-
        ning them. I especially like the concept of creating systems
        that feel alive, which Alexander goes back to throughout
        the book.
      • Seeing like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human
        Condition Have Failed by James C. Scott. This book is a heavy
        read. I find it important and necessary, though, because it
        explains how many systems that were designed to improve
        the human condition failed because they ended up only
        improving conditions for the makers of that system.




120   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
• The Nice Try! podcast from Curbed. Do my coworkers think
  my constant comparisons of design systems and failed uto-
  pias is weird? Probably. But hear me out. Utopian cities were
  designed with the aspiration that society could be improved
  through a system. Many of them failed because they were
  so lofty that they didn’t consider how real people behave.
  So much here about designing real-world systems for people
  applies to our digital systems work.


Design
There’s so much about the design process that I didn’t get to
cover in this book. Thankfully, there are lots of good resources
to help you develop your design language.

• Design Systems by Alla Kholmatova. I didn’t cover many
  of the steps involved in creating a design system, namely
  because Kholmatova has already done that so well. Read this
  if you want to learn deeply about the process of creating a
  design system.
• Interactions of Color by Josef Albers. If you want to under-
  stand how the interactions of colors influence how we per-
  ceive them, this book is a must.
• Designing Interface Animation: Meaningful Motion for User
  Experience by Val Head. In this book, Head explains how
  animation can help improve feedback, orient users, direct
  attention, and express your brand’s personality. Start here if
  you want to define animation for your brand.
• “Including Animation in Your Design System” by Val Head
  (http://bkaprt.com/eds/06-01/). Once you understand how
  animation should feel for your brand, this article is a great
  primer on how to create a motion system—from setting up
  motion principles to implementation.




                                                   Res o u r c es   121
      Service design
      • Orchestrating Experiences: Collaborative Design for Complex-
        ity by Chris Risdon and Patrick Quattlebaum. This book
        goes into serious depth about how to coordinate customer
        experiences that span multiple channels, touchpoints, and
        contexts. This is a great next step if you want to build on
        your ecosystem mapping.




122   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
REFERENCES
Shortened URLs are numbered sequentially; the related long
URLs are listed below for reference.


Introduction
00-01 https://medium.com/@suprb/redesigning-pinterest-block-by-block-
      6040a00d80a3

Chapter 1
01-01   https://www.designprinciplesftw.com/what-are-design-principles
01-02   https://www.intercom.com/blog/redesigning-in-app-messaging/
01-03   https://markboulton.co.uk/journal/defining-design-principles-at-embl
01-04   https://medium.com/salesforce-ux/defining-principles-to-drive-design-de-
        cisions-b647b68fb057
01-05 https://medium.com/@hellostanley/design-doesnt-scale-4d81e12cbc3e


Chapter 2
02-01 https://www.curbed.com/2019/6/7/18657121/brasilia-brazil-urban-plan-
      ning-architecture-design
02-02 https://miro.com/
02-03 https://medium.com/kaleidoscope/lessons-learned-from-doing-an-inter-
      face-audit-with-a-small-team-59a94047aa45
02-04 https://alistapart.com/article/language-of-modular-design/


Chapter 3
03-01 https://atlaskit.atlassian.com/packages/core/button
03-02 https://atlassian.design/guidelines/product/components/toggles
03-03 https://medium.com/guardian-ux/the-container-model-and-blended-con-
      tent-378d1a8b839d
03-04 https://design.lyft.com/re-approaching-color-9e604ba22c88
03-05 https://www.architecturaldigest.com/story/saarinen-father-and-son




                                                               Refe r e n c es     123
      Chapter 4
      04-01   https://beyondtellerrand.com/events/berlin-2017/speakers/paula-scher
      04-02   https://www.itsnicethat.com/articles/paula-scher-public-theater
      04-03   https://100.sta-chicago.org/winners/2018/the-public-theater-2018-19
      04-04   http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/pattern-variations/
      04-05   https://blog.typekit.com/2010/07/14/font-metrics-and-vertical-
              space-in-css/

      Chapter 5
      05-01 https://design-system.service.gov.uk/community/design-system-
            working-group/
      05-02 https://medium.com/eightshapes-llc/team-models-for-scaling-a-design-
            system-2cf9d03be6a0
      05-03 https://medium.com/salesforce-ux/the-salesforce-team-model-for-scaling-
            a-design-system-d89c2a2d404b

      Resources
      06-01 https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2019/02/animation-design-system/




124   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
INDEX


A                                   E
Alexander, Christopher 105          ecosystem map 24–27
Anne, Jina 111                      evaluating components 32–33
                                    evaluating design language 31–32

B
                                    F
Boulton, Mark 14
Brand, Stewart 101                  Frost, Brad 86


C                                   G
cohesion 9                          Gall, John 115
components                          Gall’s law 115
   basic 53–54                      getting buy-in 107–109
   composite 54–57                  getting started 37–39
   containers 57                    governance and feedback 108–114
   documenting 43–45
   hierarchy 51–59
   integrating 45–47                H
   layouts 58–60                    Hinkley, Selene 27
   organizing 34–35
Costa, Lucio 21
Curtis, Nathan 111                  K
                                    Kholmatova, Alla 34
D
design decision hierarchy 60–62     L
    global 61–64
    granular 65–72                  Levitt, William 117
design elements                     listening to users 11–12
    content display components 30   Lister, Ben 110
    UI components 30
design principles                   M
    definition 13
    establishing 16–17              Meadows, Donella 115
    specific principles 14          Milgram, Morris 117
    universal principles 13         modular building 1–2
design system
    definition 2
don’t repeat yourself (DRY) 108




                                                                 INDEX   125
      N                                  T
      Neimeyer, Oscar 21                 taking inventory 29–30
      New York City Transit Authority    theming 87–99
             Graphics Standards Manual       color 97–100
             7–9                             space 95–96
      Noorda, Bob 7–9, 11

                                         U
      P
                                         UI framework 2
      pattern library (definition) 2     unity 7
      Pihlström, Andreas 1
      product and user inventory 22–24
      purpose statement 9–11             V
                                         variation 76–78
      S                                      approaches 86–88
                                         Vignelli, Massimo 7–9, 11
      Saarinen, Eliel 72                 visual styles 30
      Scher, Paula 75                    Vogt, JD 16
      style guide
           definition 2
      system layers 101                  W
                                         Wood, Stanley 18




126   EXPRESSIVE DESIGN SYSTEMS
ABOUT A BOOK APART
We cover the emerging and essential topics in web design and
development with style, clarity, and above all, brevity—because
working designer-developers can’t afford to waste time.



COLOPHON
The text is set in FF Yoga and its companion, FF Yoga Sans,
both by Xavier Dupré. Headlines and cover are set in Titling
Gothic by David Berlow.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR




Yesenia Perez-Cruz is a design leader, public speaker, and
writer based out of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Throughout
her career, she’s helped countless teams strategize, design, and
implement their brand identity and design systems. Currently,
she leads a cross-functional team on the Polaris design system
team at Shopify. Previously, as Senior Director of Product
Design at Vox Media, she led the design system for Vox Media
properties, including The Verge, Vox, and Eater.
   Yesenia has been a featured speaker at conferences around
the world like An Event Apart, Design Matters, and SXSW
Interactive on topics like web performance, responsive design,
and design systems.
