Design System

in 90 Days       Second Edition
Design System in 90 Days

2nd edition




Written by Dan Mall




ISBN 979-8-9863787-1-8




Copyright © 2023 Design System University.

All rights reserved. 




No part of this publication may be copied, distributed, or otherwise exploited in whole or in
part without the prior permission of Design System University.




The text is set in Suisse BP Int’l by Swiss Typefaces. Numbers and code are set in Suisse
Int’l Mono by Swiss Typefaces.




Design System University

533 Girard Ave Unit #549

Philadelphia, PA 19125

designsystem.university
      Table of Contents
      Introduction

      Design System in 90 Days, visualized

01
   Assemble the North Star

02
   Assemble Design and Code Assets for Audit

03
   Create an Influence Map

04
   Collect Feature Teams’ Roadmaps

05
   Identify Existing Paradigms in Design And Code 

06
   Interview Potential Design System Customers 

07
   Identify Potential Pilot Teams 

08
   Schedule Pilot Product Walkthroughs 

09
   Identify Key Stakeholders and Schedule Interviews

10
   Identify Emerging and Interesting Paradigms in Design and Code 

11
   Visualize Your Ecosystem of Tools and Technologies

12
   Interview End Users

13
   Interview Stakeholders

14
   Conduct Pilot Team Walkthroughs

15
   Create New Design System Repository and Package

16
   Set Up Public Workshop Environment with Branch Deploys

17
   Teach HTML & CSS to Designers 

18
   Teach Figma to Engineers 

19
   Teach Git to Designers 

20
   Teach Storybook to Designers 

21
   Practice Hot Potato 

22
   Join Pilot Teams’ Sprint Planning Sessions 

23
   Practice with an Existing Design System 

24
   Conduct a Practice Pilot

25
   Create a Glossary of Shared Vocabulary 

26    Identify 3 Initial Components to Pilot
27
   Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Interviews 




28
   Send First Stakeholder Update




29
   Create Design System Coverage Map




30
   Set Up Slack Channel for Design System Conversation




31
   Create Reference Website v1




32
   Create Component Implementation Roadmap




33
   Propose Collaboration Plan to Pilot Teams




34
   Abstract Component Through Hot Potato




35
   Share In-Progress Component Abstraction Work with Pilot Teams




36
   Iterate on Component Through Hot Potato




37
   Chronicle the Process




38
   Issue Pull Request to Contribute Newly Abstracted Component




39
   Usability Test Component with Pilot Teams




40
   Final Iteration on Component




41
   Send Stakeholder Update




42
   Extract 3 Overarching Principles




43
   Create a List of Potential Design System Names




44
   Create Design System Logo v1




45
   Add “Design System Office Hours” to Calendar




46
   Make Design System Swag




47
   Send Slack Post about Component #1




48
   Host “Systems Week”




49
   Send Design System Name and Logo Finalists to Brand & Legal Team




50
   Repeat Activities 34–40 for Component #2




51
   Repeat Process for Component #3




52    Congrats! Release Design System v1.0.0!




      Conclusion




      About the Author




      Books about Design Systems




      About Design System University
Introduction
Hi friend!



Design systems are all the rage nowadays, aren’t they? If you find your team
managing 2 or more digital products, having a design system will make your life
easier. 



Or will it? Why is it that so many teams seem to be on their third or fourth try? It’s
because making the design system isn’t the hardest part: getting people to use it
is. (That’s not to say that making a design system is easy. It’s definitely it’s own
independent feat.)



From our experience, there seem to be 3 stages of how enterprise organizations
experience design systems

    The design system is a tool or a library, usually created by a small group of
    well-intentioned people. It’s been helpful to them in their work, and they’d love to
    share the benefits
    The design system becomes a product as more people recognize its
    importance and merits. It receives more attention, dedicated team members,
    funding, and a genuine attempt to make its use more widespread
    Ultimately, the design system becomes a practice, a status only a few teams
    have gotten to, where using it is simply “the way we do things.” It’s part of new
    employee onboarding and it’d be ridiculous not to use it for any new product
    creation. 



The way to get a design system to become a practice is to, well, practice with it.
Using it has to become habit, and that happens through repetition.





1
In this workbook, I’ve outlined a sequence of activities that, when done over and


over again, plant seeds that eventually blossom into a healthy design system


practice. I wrote those activities down, initially for me and my clients, and I figured I’d


share it with you too. Whether you’re starting or restarting a design system at your


organization, I hope this workbook helps you establish a lasting design system


practice that makes work more efficient, consistent, and eventually more fun.






Assumptions and conventions in this workbook


Because design systems require deep knowledge of design, engineering, and


product, they’re naturally a team sport. This workbook is designed for a dedicated,


cross-disciplinary design system team to do together. If you’re a freelancer or a lone


designer/engineer/product person, don’t be surprised if what you find here feels a


bit too overwhelming for you to do completely on your own.






This workbook is written for an ideal design system team size of 3–8 people,


dedicated to design system work at least 20–30 hours per week. I also assume the


design system team works in conjunction with other cross-disciplinary teams


responsible for creating features for the digital products the organization promotes.






The smallest ideal design system team might look something like this:




                                             Product Owner




DesignOps Lead                 Design Lead               Engineering Lead            Writer Lead




 2
 Here’s a rough breakdown of each role on that team and their general
 responsibilities

      Product Owner: a people manager responsible for addressing the value and
      viability risk of the design system and the overall health of the team
      DesignOps Lead: an individual contributor responsible for supporting high
      quality crafts, methods, and processes on the team
      Design Lead: an individual contributor responsible for the user interface,
      typically through graphical/visual tools like Figma and Sketch
      Engineering Lead: an individual contributor responsible for the user interface,
      typically through writing code
      Writer Lead: an individual contributor responsible for the user interface,
      typically through usable content and copy that is appropriate for the audience
      and purpose.



 It’s not important that your team have these titles exactly, but it is important to have
 people that have these responsibilities. Especially for smaller teams, it’s very
 common for multiple people to contribute to the task of a missing role. For example,
 without a writer on the team, a designer and an engineer might share the
 responsibility of writing copy for the user interface.



 The largest ideal design system team might look something like this:













                                                   Product Owner




 DesignOps Lead                  Design Manager              Engineering Manager


                                                                                    Writer   Business

                                                                                              Analyst
DesignOps Associate                 Designer(s)                     Engineer(s)




  3
Activities

The content ahead is structured as Activities to be completed over a 90-day
timeframe. You won’t find a lot of theory here: these Activities are very tactical and
attempt to clearly instruct you on what to do and how to do it. Each Activity can take
anywhere from a half a day to a few weeks to complete and may be done by one
person, a smal group, or the entire design system team.


Al Activities in the text are prefixed with .


The  DACI    framework

Under each Activity name, you’l see the letters “D,” “A,” “C,” and “I.” They represent
the DACI framework, a tool for making decisions and taking action. It stands for
    Driver: A single driver of overal project like the person steering a car
    Approver: One or more approvers who make most project decisions, and are
    responsible if it fails
    Contributors: The worker-bees who are responsible for deliverables and with
    whom there is two-way communication
    Informed: Those who are impacted by the project and are provided status and
    informed of decisions; and with whom there is one-way communication.


Distributed         by  default

For al Activities, I’m assuming that people aren’t working in the same physical
location and are instead working distributed and asynchronous. That means there’s
extra emphasis on written communication and working in public. Even if you’re a co-
located team, this default perspective should help you more than hurt you.


Knowledge       and   tools

This workbook won’t cover too much in the way of the craft of design systems, which
means there wil be very little here about using design tools or the specifics of
writing code. I assume designers have a decent understanding of tools like Figma
and Sketch and that engineers can write and understand HTML/CSS and
understand concepts of JavaScript frameworks like React.

 4
Extra  Credit

Throughout the workbook, you’l occasional y see a ️in a yel ow box labeled “Extra
Credit.” These represent bonus content and tips you can try if you’re feeling extra
excited and ambitious.


Accompanying           files

Along with this workbook, you also downloaded 3 accompanying files
     A FigJam file cal ed the Design System in 90 Days Canvas. Every time you
     see this symbol ( ), that means there’s a corresponding section in the FigJam
     where you can do the work suggested in the Activity. Look for the number that
     corresponds to the Activity you’re currently reading. The easiest way to use this
     is to open it directly from the Figma community. However, if that doesn’t work,
     you can open the local version (See the README file for instructions if you need
     help.)
     A simplified PDF version of the Design System in 90 Days Canvas. You
     may find it helpful to have this handy or print this out and refer to it as you’re
     going through the workbook
     Some people see the world as a Gantt chart, so there’s a PDF visualization of
     the entire 90-day span with the 52 activities laid out so you can see how they
     overlap, sequence, and work together
     A Figma file cal ed “Design System in 90 Days template.” In that file, you’l find 2
     pages that correspond to Activities 21 and 27.







 5
     The Design System in 90 Days Canvas


Let’ s Get    Started

Without further ado, your journey to a design system in 90 days awaits. Head to

  Activity #1: Assemble the North Star!


—Dan Mal , founder of Design System University





 6
Design System in 90 Days, visualized




7
    Day 1–4

#01 Assemble the North Star
    D Design system team      A Product Owner       C Design system team       I Entire org



    Start your design system journey by aligning your efforts with the larger efforts of your
    organization.



    Gather any documents, presentations, or other artifacts that capture your
    organization’s business strategy, what leadership author Michael D. Watkins calls the
    “What, Who, How, and Why” of your organization. “[The] mission, network, strategy, and
    vision define the strategic direction for a business. They provide the what, who, how,
    and why necessary to powerfully align action in complex organizations.”



    Collect all relevant information and documentation for the following and record them in
    the Design System in 90 Days Canvas

        What: Our Mission + Goal
        Who: Who We Serve
        How: Strategic Prioritie
        Why: Vision + Incentives 





            ️ Extra Credit
        Write a recap of all the information you assembled to distill this information into a succinct set of
        bullet points or a few short paragraphs. Make visual reminders within reach that can cue you and
        the team what you’re working towards, like phone and desktop wallpapers, printed posters to
        hang around your desks, etc.




    9
#01 Assemble the North Star, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    10
    Day 1–4

#02 Assemble Design and Code
    Assets for Audit
    D Engineer + Designer   A Product Owner   C Design System team   I Entire org



    In Activity #5: Identify Useful and Non-Useful Patterns in Design and Code,
    you’re going to audit your design and code for useful and non-useful patterns. To
    help your audit go smoothly, gather as many design and code assets related to your
    design system as you can. For design assets (Figma files, Sketch files, etc), make
    sure everyone on your team—yes, even engineers!—have access to these artifacts
    and libraries. For code repositories on Github or Bitbucket or whatever you use,
    gather up the team’s usernames or have them create accounts, and get everyone
    access—yes, even designers!—to the necessary repos. (Read-only access is fine…
    for now.)

     

    There might be assets and libraries your organization has that you don’t even know
    to ask for! You may need to ask around to make sure you’ve gathered up past,
    present and future libraries, repos, basically anything that teams use to do their
    work, including: 


         All design files related to your design syste
         All code repositories related to your design syste
         Any reference site links or PDF style guide
         Any product that currently uses any part of a design system, whether yours or a
         third-party one





    11
#02 Assemble Design and Code Assets for Audit, cont.

    Assemble the list of links to all these artifacts in the        Design System in 90
    Days Canvas.




             ️ Extra Credit
         Thinking ahead to Activity #10: Visualize Your Technical Ecosystem, begin to document and
         map the relationships, connections, and dependencies between the assets you’re collecting.




    12
    Day 2–4

#03 Create an Influence Map
    D Design system team   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



    Design system adoption requires organizational change. You’re developing the
    practice of using a design system to make digital interfaces, which requires teams to
    collaborate in different ways and adopt new rituals and tools. You’ll definitely need
    stakeholder support to shepherd this kind of change. 



    Make a list of key stakeholders that have direct stakes in this design system effort,
    folks who have a vested interest in its success and stand to lose if it fails.

         Identify the key leads that own the artifacts you identify in Activity #2:
         Assemble Design and Code Assets for Audit.
         Reference your company’s org chart or create one if needed.
         Map these individuals in the Design System in 90 Days Canvas to identify
         the relational connections and alliances that will influence and shape the
         decision making around design systems at your organization. Green =
         supportive. Yellow = Undecided. Red = Opposed. Thick arrows indicate strong
         influence, while thin arrows indicate weak influence.



    This is different than an org chart. You’re identifying the critical decision makers and
    the individuals within their departments that influence and challenge design system
    efforts.




    13
#04 Create an Influence Map, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas



    Additional resource
          The First 90 Days, by Michael D. Watkins. bit.ly/the-first-90-day
          “7 Types of Organizational Structures” by Lucidchart. bit.ly/7-org-structures




    14
    Day 5–9

#04 Collect Feature Teams’ Roadmaps
    D DesignOps       A Product Owner      C Design system team      I Entire org



    To prepare for Activity # 7: Identify Potential Pilot Teams, you’ll need to collect
    feature teams’ roadmaps. Some organizations use a tool like Confluence to collect
    high level team roadmaps for shared visibility, or you may have to track these down
    one by one. At this stage, you’re looking for whatever exists. This could be
    spreadsheets, Jira boards, Google docs, even photos of whiteboarding sessions.
    Roadmaps evolve; that’s to be expected. Your aim in this exercise is to get your
    hands on whatever is used at your organization to plan quarterly initiatives and to
    facilitate conversations about prioritization. What are the feature teams at your
    organization planning to do in the next 3 months? How are they broadcasting those
    plans? That’s what you’re after. 



    Record the list of links, screenshots, etc of team roadmaps in the  
       Design System in 90 Days Canvas.




             ️ Extra Credit
         Consider asking your key stakeholders for help. They may have this level of detail captured in a
         spreadsheet or presentation somewhere. 



         If you are unable to collect these roadmaps without asking product owners directly, streamline
         your communication and lump this ask in with your request for an interview in Activity #6:
         Interview Potential Design System Users. 





    15
#04 Collect Feature Teams’ Roadmaps, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    16
     Day 5–14

#05 Identify Existing Paradigms in
     Design and Code
     D Designer + Engineer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     Comb through every file and repository you listed from Activity #2: Assemble
     Design and Code Assets for Audit and visually group similar components together in
     the Design System in 90 Days Canvas.



     Annotate what these components have in common visually and in code. This is a purely
     objective exercise. Don’t exercise any judgment or evaluation here; in this activity, it
     doesn’t matter if you love or hate the commonality… just the facts, ma’am.



     Here's an example. Below are a few “card”-like components, collected from an
     insurance website. What’s common here?





     17
#05 Identify Existing Paradigms in Design and Code, cont.

         Small-ish sans-serif body copy (8 or 8
         Support for an image, icon, or illustration (7 of 8
         An all caps headline (6 of 8
         Some sort of rounded corner call-to-action (CTA) link that looks like a button (6
         of 8
         Left-aligned text (5 of 8)



    What’s less common but close

         Card background colo
         Card borde
         CTA that has either blue or caramel backgroun
         Text alignment (left or centered
         Orientation (vertical or horizontal)



    The same kind of pattern spotting applies for the markup too. Here are 3 different
    ways this similar element has been coded (simplified for the purposes of example):





    18
#05 Identify Existing Paradigms in Design and Code, cont.




    What’s common

         Headline marked up as <h3>, followed by paragraph (2 of 3
         Image comes first (3 of 3
         Kebab case (2 of 3)




    19
#05 Identify Existing Paradigms in Design and Code, cont.

    Less common

         Wrapper element
         Class names



    These will be half the base of your new design system that we’ll pick up in                 Activity
    #34: Abstract Component through Hot Potato.



    Additional resource
         Collect; don’t create. bit.ly/collect-dont-creat
         “Interface Inventory,” by Brad Frost. bit.ly/interface-inventor
         “How to Systematize Internal Products,” by Runi Goswami. bit.ly/systematize-internal-
         product
         “Auditing as a First Step to Design Systems Planning,” by Heather Taylor. bit.ly/design-
         system-auditin
         “Getting Systematic about Design Systems,” by Mindy Wagner. bit.ly/getting-
         systematic-design-systems




             ️ Extra Credit
         Get more people involved! Make it a party: send out food delivery gift cards and ask every
         designer and engineer in the organization that has time to come to a jam session where
         everyone brings a tasty treat and contributes to a single Figma file.




    20
     Day 7–19

#06 Interview Potential Design System
     Customers
     D Product Manager   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     In order to make a useful design system—or really any useful product—you have to know
     what pain points need to be alleviated. Make a list of 15-20 people who should use the
     design system; that list should probably start with designers and engineers on feature
     teams but also includes product managers, writers, and other disciplines. Interview
     each person for 30-45 minutes and listen for stories of how product gets made.



     Email template to send to schedule interviews

     Create a Calendly, Doodle, or something equivalent to let interviewees select times
     that are good for them for a chat. Send this email to everyone on your newly made list to
     start scheduling conversations:

                                                 Copy




           Hi [NAME]! We’re conducting some interviews to kick off a new
           effort to improve the design system. We’re interested in asking
           you some questions to gather your insights into how digital
           product gets made at [COMPANY NAME], your experience with design
           systems, and what you hope to see for the future. These sessions
           will be about 45 mins and will be casual and conversational.
           Nothing needed to prepare. Just come ready to chat.



           If that all sounds great to you, could you see if there’s a good
           time for us to chat at this link? https://calendly.com/krakoa/
           interviews





     21
#06 Interview Potential Design System Customers, cont.

    Sample interview questions

    Here’s a script you can use during the interview to capture the kind of information
    that will come in handy later. Keep track of who you've interviewed, who’s left to talk
    to, and the notes and recordings for each interview in the Design System in 90
    Days Canvas.



    Hi [INTERVIEWEE’S NAME]! My name is [NAME]. We’re currently having conversations
    with folks like you to understand more about the needs of the people that do and may use
    [COMPANY NAME]’s design system. 



    We’d like to make sure it’s as useful of a platform as possible, and we’re starting by
    making sure we’re well-informed as we make changes over the next few weeks and
    months. 



    Is it ok to ask you a few questions about that? 



    Before you answer, please know that we’ll keep your answers confidential and we’ll only
    use them within our team for our own information.



    Introduction Question

         What’s your role at [COMPANY NAME]
         How long have you been at [COMPANY NAME]
         Can you give a brief background of your time at [COMPANY NAME]
         What has been your journey at [COMPANY NAME] like? For instance, how did you get
         started and how did you end up where you are now? 



    Work & Workflo

         What does a day in your life look like
         What are your priorities? How do you determine your priorities?



    22
#06 Interview Potential Design System Customers, cont.

         Can you describe your current workflow
         What aspects of the current workflow are working really well
         What aspects of the current workflow do you think could be improved
         If you had a magic wand and could change one thing about how things work here, what
         would that thing be
         What kind of projects are you working on right now
         What specifically are you working on now? What specifically are you working on right
         now that should or could use [COMPANY NAME] Design System? What specifically
         are you working on right now that shouldn’t or couldn’t use [COMPANY NAME] Design
         System?



    Tools & Technologie

         What tools/technologies are you using regularly? Which are you forced to use and
         which do you choose to use
         What tools/technologies do you use irregularly
         What tools/technologies do you love
         What tools/technologies do you hate?



    Hopes & Fear

         Have you used a design system before
         Where did you first learn about design systems?
         Have you used the [COMPANY NAME] Design System before
         How did you hear about the [COMPANY NAME] Design System?
         Do you think a design system will help in your current workflow? Why or why not
         What about the design system makes you nervous, apprehensive, or skeptical
         What about the design system makes you excited, eager, or curious?




    23
#06 Interview Potential Design System Customers, cont.

    Outcome

         What does success look like? Fast forward a year from now, everyone is thrilled with
         the design system. How did that happen
         What’s going to sink this ship? Fast forward a year from now and the design system
         initiative is a total failure. Why did it fail?



    Wrap U

         What can we tell you about the project we’re working on
         How involved would you like to be in the work we have coming up? Would you like to be
         a collaborator? To stay informed? To steer clear
         What advice can you give us about how to succeed on this project at [COMPANY
         NAME]
         What questions should we be asking you that we aren’t?








    Additional resource
         “Design system interview questions,” by Brad Frost. bit.ly/design-system-interview-
         questions




             ️ Extra Credit
         Divvy up the role of interviewer and share the responsibility of conducting these interviews. Have
         engineers interview designers and vice versa. 



         Aim for a wide coverage of your organization: interview across themes, departments and
         platforms. Don’t just interview from one department of the organization. Make sure you have a full
         view of anyone who could use this system.




    24
#06 Interview Potential Design System Customers, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    25
     Day 9

#07 Identify Potential Pilot Teams
     D Design system team   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire Org



     In order to find out what kinds of digital products your design system should support
     long-time, try out a few short-term products and features. These short-terms products
     and features are called design system pilots, and they’re the best way to grow a
     design system, especially at first. 



     To determine which teams, products, and features make for the most useful pilots, use
     the collective roadmap you assembled in Activity #4: Collect Feature Teams’
     Roadmaps and score every product against these 8 factors on a scale from 0 (unlikely)
     to 10 (very likely) to help determine which products will be best for the design system in  
     what order

          Potential for common components. Does this product have many components
          that can be reused in other products
          Potential for common patterns. Does this product have many patterns that can
          be reused in other products
          High-value elements. Even if uncommon, is there a component or pattern with
          high-business value that is the heart of this product? We’re talking elements that
          are integral to a flow or audience that has unusually high value for the organization
          Technical feasibility. How simple is a technical implementation of the design
          system? Is a large refactor required?




     26
#07 Identify Potential Pilot Teams, cont.

          Available champion. Will someone working on this product see it through and
          celebrate/evangelize using the design system (and even contributing back to it)
          Scope. Is this work accomplishable in our pilot timeframe of [3–4 weeks] (insert
          your timing here)
          Technical independence. Is the work decoupled enough from other legacy
          design and code that there are clear start and  
          end points
          Marketing potential. Will this work excite others to use the  
          design system?



     Record your scores in the Design System in 90 Days Canvas and create a
     prioritized list from highest score to lowest. This is your starting point for teams to try
     and work with.




          Design System in 90 Days Canvas




     27
#07 Identify Potential Pilot Teams, cont.

     Additional resource
          “The Most Exciting Design Systems are Boring,” by Josh Clark. bit.ly/boring-design-
          system
          “Design Systems: Pilots & Scorecards,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/design-system-pilot
          “Your first ten customers,” by Patrick McKenzie. bit.ly/first-ten-customers




              ️ Extra Credit
          Wondering about the difference between a component and a pattern? It doesn’t matter much
          which is which, but it is important to distinguish between the two. Start here: a component is a
          static interface element, like a table or a card. A pattern is a series of static elements like flows,
          such as a login sequence or checkout sequence.




     28
     Day 9

#08 Schedule Pilot Product
     Walkthroughs
     D Product Manager   A Product Owner   C Engineer + Designer   I Design system team



     Using the prioritized list you made in Activity #7: Identify Potential Pilots Teams,
     track down the emails of each pilot team’s product owner/leads and start scheduling
     some times to walk through their products with them. 



     Use the Design System in 90 Days Canvas to keep track of who you’ve talked to
     already and their general reception to working together.



     Email template to send to schedule interviews

     Create a Calendly, Doodle, or something equivalent to let interviewees select times
     that are good for them for a chat. Send this email to everyone on your newly made list to
     start scheduling conversations:

                                                 Copy




           Hi [PRODUCT OWNER NAME]! We’re conducting some interviews to
           kick off a new effort to improve the design system. We’d love to
           ask you some questions to gather your insights into how your
           team works, your experience with design systems, and what you
           hope to see for the future. 



           We’ve also identified your team as a great potential candidate
           to partner with as we grow the design system, so we'd love to
           chat about your roadmap and walk through your feature work to
           collaborate in more detail on what it might look like to run
           pilots together in a way that’s mutually beneficial.




     29
#08 Schedule Pilot Product Walkthroughs, cont.
                                       Copy




         These sessions will be casual and conversational. Nothing needed
         to prepare, just come ready to chat and share where your squad
         is at with feature work. We’d love 90-minutes if you can spare
         it: 30-minutes to walk through the products via screenshare and
         about an hour of questions and discussion. And, of course, if we
         end up not needing all the time, we’d be happy to end early and
         give y’all valuable time back.



         If that all sounds great to you, could you see if there’s a good
         time for our teams to chat at this link? https://calendly.com/
         krakoa/interviews





    30
#09 Schedule Pilot Product Walkthroughs, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    31
     Day 9

#09 Identify Key Stakeholders and
     Schedule Interviews
     D Product Manager   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     Using the diagram you made in Activity # 3: Create an Influence Map, identify the
     list of key stakeholders you want to interview. Talk to as many heads, directors, VPs, and
     other leads of departments or organizational sections as you can. Aim for 10
     stakeholder interviews. Be mindful of your sample set, interview a variety of folks from
     gender, background, ethnicity, tenure at the company, etc. 



     You’ll likely need to work with assistants or project managers to schedule these
     interviews and they may require booking a week (or weeks) out. 



     Create a Calendly, Doodle, or something equivalent to let interviewees select times
     that are good for them for a chat. Send this email to everyone on your newly made list to
     start scheduling conversations:

                                                 Copy




           Hi [NAME]! As you know, we’re conducting some interviews to kick
           off a new effort to improve the design system. We’re interested
           in asking you some questions about the opportunities you see for
           a design system at [COMPANY NAME], and what you hope to see for
           the future. These sessions will be about 45 mins and will be
           casual and conversational. Nothing needed to prepare. Just come
           ready to chat.



           If that all sounds great to you, could you see if there’s a good
           time for us to chat at this link? https://calendly.com/krakoa/
           interviews





     32
#09 Identify Key Stakeholders and Schedule Interviews, cont.

    In the Design System in 90 Days Canvas, capture the names, titles,
    departments, and relevant notes for each stakeholder to track the progress of
    scheduling these interviews.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    33
     Day 10–14

#10 Identify Emerging and Interesting
     Paradigms in Design and Code
     D Engineer + Designer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



     This activity will be nearly identical Activity #5: Identify Existing Paradigms in
     Design and Code, but approach it from a different perspective. While the previous
     activity was purely objective, this one is purely subjective. From every file and repository
     you listed from Activity #2: Assemble Design and Code Assets for Audit, ask
     yourself and your team this question: what in here would we like to see more or
     less of at our organization? 



     Your answers may vary wildly. Examples

          More or less use of a particular colo
          More or less code that’s structured a particular wa
          More or less use of icons and illustration
          More or less use of progressive disclosure



     Screenshot existing examples in your organization’s portfolio of products and annotate
     what’s interesting about them in the Design System in 90 Days Canvas. These
     will be the other half of the base of your new design system that we’ll pick up in 

         Activity #34: Abstract Component through Hot Potato.





     34
#10 Identify Emerging and Interesting Paradigms, cont.

             ️ Extra Credit
         Many organizations have aspirations to make their digital products more accessible or
         performant. This is the perfect time to catalog and define just what “better accessibility” or “more
         performant” mean. For example, if you find even one example of a component that, say, uses
         ARIA roles in a way you’d like to see more of, note that here with plans to integrate it once you get
         to Activity #34.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    35
     Day 10–13

#11 Visualize Your Ecosystem of Tools
     and Technologies
     D Engineer + Designer   A Product Owner    C Design system team   I Entire org



     One of the most opaque things about a design system is how and where it fits in the
     broader technical ecosystem of the organization. To solve this, draw a diagram that
     can be shared to create some clarity and alignment! Start with a pairing session
     between an engineer and designer and draw a map together with these initial items
     as a starting point

          Component librar
          UI Ki
          Reference websit
          Guideline
          Design Tokens



     List as much metadata with each item as you can, like the technology each piece is
     built with, the URL to find this item, who is the main point of contact for this item, etc.



     Lastly, fill in contextual information outside of the design system specific pieces. A
     good place to start is to look for anything with an acronym

          Content Management System (CMS
          Customer Relationship Management (CRM) too
          Digital Asset Manager (DAM)



     Ideally, someone at your organization may have made this already, like someone in
     an IT or Engineering Infrastructure department. Try and track it down. If it doesn’t
     exist or isn’t easily accessed, you may have to create it yourself.




     36
#11 Visualize Your Ecosystem of Tools and Technologies, cont.

    Questions to answer

         What does the environment look like that consumes components from the
         design system
         Is there a build pipeline to go from staging environments to a production
         environment
         What tools and processes are regularly employed to keep design work and
         engineering work in sync?



    Additional resource
         Stuck? Diagrams Help. by Abby Covert. abbycovert.com/stuck
         “Design Systems Architecture Diagrams,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/design-systems-
         architecture-diagram
         “How to Draw Useful Technical Architecture Diagrams,” by Jimmy Soh. bit.ly/useful-
         technical-diagram
         “The Art of Crafting Architectural Diagrams,” on InfoQ. bit.ly/crafting-architectural-
         diagrams



             ️ Extra Credit
         If you find people wanting even more context than the diagram provides, create use cases that
         utilize the diagram as a visual aid. Write stories for processes like “how to publish a new
         component,” “where to include a third-party plugin,” and more.




                                       In the campus bookstore at Design System University

                                       Need an icon for a specific design system concept
                                       like “governance” or “reference site?” Download our
                                       free Design System Icon pack.




    37
#11 Visualize Your Ecosystem of Tools and Technologies, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    38
    Day 10–22

#12 Interview End Users
     D Design system team   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     Making a great design system starts with understanding the experiences that end
     users are having. Identify their needs and their pain points. This will impact the work
     your feature teams are doing, which will impact the evolution of how your design
     system serves your feature teams. Aim to interview between 5-10 end users and
     plan for up to 30. Ask them about their work, life, and behaviors so you know clearly
     what kinds of interface problems your design system should solve.



     Email template to send to schedule interviews

     Create a Calendly, Doodle, or something equivalent to let interviewees select times
     that are good for them for a chat. Send this email to everyone on your newly made
     list to start scheduling conversations:

                                                 Copy




            Hi! This is [PERSON NAME] from [COMPANY NAME]. We’re working on
            a new project and my team is interested in chatting with you
            about your experience using [ORGANIZATION]’s products. We’re
            interested in chatting with you about your experience using
            [PRODUCT MADE WITH DESIGN SYSTEM]. We’re hosting 45-minute
            interviews via Zoom video conference where we would like to ask
            you questions about your experience using different parts of our
            product. This will be casual and conversational. There's nothing
            you need to do to prepare. Just be ready to answer some
            questions and share your thoughts. If you’re interested, please
            click on this link to see if there is a time that works for you:
            https://calendly.com/krakoa/interviews




     39
#12 Interview End Users, cont.

    Sample interview questions

    Here’s a script you can use during the interview to capture the kind of information
    that will come in handy later. Keep track of who you've interviewed, who’s left to talk
    to, and the notes and recordings for each interview in the Design System in 90
    Days Canvas.



    Hi [INTERVIEWEE’S NAME]! My name is [NAME]. We’re currently having conversations
    with folks like you to understand more about how you use [The product] to understand how
    we might create better products for you and people like you. 



    Is it ok to ask you a few questions about that? 



    Before you answer, please know that we’ll keep your answers confidential and we’ll only
    use them within our team for our own information.



    Introduction Question

         What’s your name
         What do you do for a living?



    Work & Workflo

         What’s your typical day or week like
         What’s your experience with [COMPANY NAME] and its products
         What other products like [COMPANY NAME]’s do you use? Which do you enjoy? Which
         are painful to use? Why
         What aspects of [PRODUCT NAME] current offerings are working really well for you?




    40
#12 Interview End Users, cont.

         Are there things on [PRODUCT NAME] platform that you do over and over again
         What aspects of the [PRODUCT NAME] current offerings do you think could be
         improved
         If you had a magic wand and could change one thing about how you interact with [The
         Product] , what would that thing be?



    Outcome

         Fast forward a year from now, [PRODUCT NAME] is a joy to use for you, something you
         look forward to using weekly or even daily. How did that happen
         Fast forward a year from now and you dread using anything that has to do with
         [PRODUCT NAME]. Why did it fail?



    Wrap U

         What can we tell you about the project we’re working on
         What advice can you give us about how to succeed at [COMPANY NAME] in making
         better products for people like you
         What questions should we be asking you that we aren’t?




             ️ Extra Credit
         If your organization has a research department or any UX researchers, find out if they have an
         existing list of end users you could reach out to (or maybe they will reach out for you!). Offer an
         incentive like a cash gift card in exchange for an interview… this always works! The going rate for
         a 60-minute interview is about $75-$100 USD.




    41
#12 Interview End Users, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    42
     Day 10–29

#13 Interview Stakeholders
     D Design system team   A Product Owner    C Design system team    I Design system team



     Where does leadership see this company or the flagship product(s) going? What are
     the big plans? Do they see opportunities to be a more connected organization? What
     are the obstacles? What are they excited about? Your objective here is to gather as
     many insights as you can about where the organization is heading, what plans for
     change and growth are in the works, and what opportunities and challenges are up
     ahead. 



     Note: these aren’t interviews about the design system. At this, you likely know more
     about design systems and have thought about them more than your stakeholders
     have. Instead, you’re asking them about everything outside the design system so you
     can eventually propose a strategy for how the design system fits smoothly into
     everything else.



     Take good notes and record as many sessions as you can. You’ll need the info later in
        Activity #27: Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Insights when you
     summarize, synthesize, and share what you’ve learned. 



     Sample interview questions

     Here’s a script you can use during the interview to capture the kind of information that
     will come in handy later. Record your notes, insights and recordings in the Design
     System in 90 Days Canvas. 





     Hi [INTERVIEWEE’S NAME]! My name is [NAME]. We’re currently having conversations with
     folks like you to understand more about the needs of the people that do and may use
     [COMPANY NAME]’s design system. 



     We’d like to make sure it’s as useful of a platform as possible, and we’re starting by making
     sure we’re well-informed as we make changes over the next few weeks and months.



     43
#13 Interview Key Stakeholders, cont.

     Is it ok to ask you a few questions about that? 



     Before you answer, please know that we’ll keep your answers confidential and we’ll only
     use them within our team for our own information.



     Introduction Question

         What’s your role at [COMPANY NAME]
         How long have you been at [COMPANY NAME]
         Can you give a brief background of your time at [COMPANY NAME]
         What has been your journey at [COMPANY NAME] like? For instance, how did you get
         started and how did you end up where you are now? 



     Work & Workflo

         What does a day in your life look like
         What are your priorities? How do you determine your priorities
         Can you describe your current workflow
         What aspects of the current workflow are working really well
         What aspects of the current workflow do you think could be improved
         If you had a magic wand and could change one thing about how things work here, what
         would that thing be
         What kind of projects are you working on right now
         What specifically are you working on now? What specifically are you working on right
         now that should or could use [COMPANY NAME] Design System? What specifically
         are you working on right now that shouldn’t or couldn’t use [COMPANY NAME] Design
         System?



     Tools & Technologie

         What tools/technologies are you using regularly? Which are you forced to use and
         which do you choose to use?




    44
#13 Interview Key Stakeholders, cont.

         What tools/technologies do you use irregularly
         What tools/technologies do you love
         What tools/technologies do you hate?



    Hopes & Fear

         Have you used a design system before
         Where did you first learn about design systems?
         Have you used the [COMPANY NAME] Design System before
         How did you hear about the [COMPANY NAME] Design System?
         Do you think a design system will help in your current workflow? Why or why not
         What about the design system makes you nervous, apprehensive, or skeptical
         What about the design system makes you excited, eager, or curious?



    Outcome

         What does success look like? Fast forward a year from now, everyone is thrilled with
         the design system. How did that happen
         What’s going to sink this ship? Fast forward a year from now and the design system
         initiative is a total failure. Why did it fail?



    Wrap U

         What can we tell you about the project we’re working on
         How involved would you like to be in the work we have coming up? Would you like to be
         a collaborator? To stay informed? To steer clear
         What advice can you give us about how to succeed on this project at [COMPANY
         NAME]
         What questions should we be asking you that we aren’t?




    45
#13 Interview Key Stakeholders, cont.

    Additional resource
         “Design Systems Prepare You for Change,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/design-systems-change




             ️ Extra Credit
         Everyone has their own system for taking notes, but one effective way is to capture quotes from
         your interviewees. This contributes all the power and context of a person’s thoughts, and quotes
         can easily be grouped into themes and shared anonymously.




    46
#13 Interview Key Stakeholders, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    47
    Day 10–29

#14 Conduct Pilot Team Walkthroughs
    D DesignOps    A Product Owner   C Designer + Engineer   I Design system team



    Design system pilots should be a win-win scenario: the team using one or more
    components saves time and the design system grows as more components can be
    extracted into it from existing code.



    Have your pilot team leads walk you through what they’ve been working on for their
    product or feature and what’s coming up soon on their roadmaps. A good format for
    walking through their product is a user journey. Ask them to share their screens and
    take you through what they expect users to do with their product or feature. 



    As they’re showing you their screens, make a simple list of every component you see
    on screen in the Design System in 90 Days Canvas… anything that could be a
    modular piece of design or code. (You’ll use this list in Activity #26: Identify 3 initial
    Components to Pilot.)



    Look at as many screens as you can in the time you have with the team. As your time
    with the potential pilot team comes to a close, wrap up the conversation with these
    closing words:














         Thanks so much for showing us what you’ve been working on! We’ll spend the next
         few days looking across all the conversations we’ve had with our potential pilot
         teams to see what overlaps exist. If we see something others are working on that
         this team could benefit from or something that you’re working on that other teams
         could benefit from, can we get back in touch with you in a few days with a few
         options for how we might work together?




    (They almost always say yes!)



    48
#14 Conduct Pilot Team Walkthroughs, cont.


           something that you’re working on that other teams could benefit from,
           can we get back in touch with you in a few days with a few options for
           how we might work together?




    (They almost always say yes!)





         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    49
    Day 14–15

#15 Create New Design System
    Repository and Package
    D Engineer    A Product Owner   C Design system engineers   I Design system team



    Within your version control platform of choice like GitHub or Bitbucket, create a new
    repository that your new design system will live in.



    That might seem simple enough, but in many enterprises, this small action sets off a
    chain of events that could block useful design system work by weeks or even months.
    Reasons to get these requests in early:


         It’s likely that not everyone is allowed to create a new repository but that someone
         specific within an IT or infrastructure department needs to do that. That department
         may be backed up with lots of requests like this
         Part of initializing a repository may be installing/implementing organizational best
         practices, like continuous integration tools or specific server deploy configurations.
         If there are any new configurations you may want to set up like using paid services
         like Chromatic or getting a specific testing suite added, those vetting and
         procurement processes may take time in the back-and-forth negotiations
         Much of the tooling that goes along with design system work may require
         authentication platforms, single sign-on functionality, VPN access, issuing
         company laptops, etc
         The idea of designers having access to code repositories may be a new concept at
         your organization and may even need approval at a VP or executive level.




    50
#15 Create New Design System Repository and Package, cont.

    In addition to the new repository, your new design system will need to be
    consumable by other applications as a dependency, so you’ll also need to set up
    and publish a new package for your design system to live in. There are various ways
    to do this between tools like GitHub packages and npm. Your engineering, IT, or
    infrastructure teams may also have their own proprietary package management
    strategy, but if you need a refresher, start with npm’s documentation on creating
    and publishing private packages.



    Additional resource
         “Do you need to version your component library?” by Mae Capozzi. bit.ly/version-
         component-librar
         “Distribute UI across an organization,” by Tom Coleman and Dominic Nguyen. bit.ly/
         distribute-ui




    51
    Day 16–17

#16 Set Up Public Workshop
    Environment with Branch Deploys
    D Engineer   A Product Owner   C Design system engineers   I Design system team



    Every good design system team should have what front-end designer Brad Frost calls a
    “workshop” environment, an environment separate from its production environment
    that allows specifically for prototyping user interfaces. Storybook is one of the most
    popular choices, but you can use similar component-based development
    environments like Backlight, Pattern Lab, Fractal, and many more.



    One of the biggest impediments to true collaboration is when work isn’t visible enough.
    For example, designers can’t riff on what engineers are working on in Storybook if the
    only way to see it is to run it locally, especially if they don’t know how to do that.



    As a quick follow-up to Activity #15: Create New Design System Repository and
    Package, invest in a solution that pushes any new code branch to a URL to anyone can
    access (or that anyone can access on VPN or within a firewall or whatever your lowest
    level of security can safely be). Products like Netlify and Chromatic have this feature
    built in or you could configure it your own, but the important thing is that everyone on
    the team can see what’s being worked on in a way that has the least amount of friction.




    52
#16 Set Up Public Workshop Environment with Branch Deploys, cont.

    Additional resource
         “Working in Public,” by Chris Coyier. bit.ly/working-in-publi
         “The Workshop and the Storefront,” by Brad Frost. bit.ly/workshop-storefron
         “Building Design Systems in React with Storybook,” by Patrick Fulton. bit.ly/design-
         systems-react-storyboo
         “Creating branch deploys,” by Phil Hawskworth. bit.ly/netlify-branch-deploy
         “Structuring your Storybook,” by Varun Vachhar. bit.ly/structuring-storybook





    53
    Day 20

#17 Teach HTML & CSS to Designers
    D Best Engineer teacher    A Non-engineers    C All Engineers    I All Designers



    Should designers code? Who cares, but it’d be helpful for everyone working on a design
    system to have at least a little familiarity with the code browsers use to display
    information… namely, HTML and CSS. Spend half a day covering these topics with lots
    of room for questions and practicing together

         Anatomy of an HTML ta
         Most common HTML tags, like headings, paragraphs, and list
         Anatomy of a CSS rul
         Ways to change colors, spacing, and font-sizes in CSS



    Additional resource
         “Learn HTML,” by Codecademy. bit.ly/html-codecadem
         “Learn CSS,” on web.dev. bit.ly/learn-css-web-de
         “Getting started with the web,” on MDN Web Docs. mzl.la/3w1CgBY



             ️ Extra Credit
         If your non-engineers are catching on to HTML & CSS quickly or know it already, consider
         expanding your class to cover some basics of the languages/framework(s) your design system
         uses, like React, Angular, Vue, web components, etc.




    54
    Day 21

#18 Teach Figma to Engineers
    D Best Designer teacher   A Non-designers     C All Engineers      I All Designers



    One of the biggest opportunities design system work provides is for teams to
    collaborate more closely. That collaboration starts by understanding more about how
    your colleagues work.



    Spend half a day doing a “Figma for Engineers” workshop. Especially as Figma’s
    features get closer to how engineers work but isn’t fully at parity yet, it’s important that
    designers and engineers understand where their tools are the same and where they’re
    different. Review these topics together

         Auto-layout
         Reusable component
         Libraries



    Additional resource
         Design for Developers, by Stephanie Stimac. bit.ly/design-for-developers-stephanie-
         stima
         Auto-layout vs. flexbox. bit.ly/autolayout-vs-flexbo
         “Engineer's Guide to Figma,” by Rachel McClung. bit.ly/engineers-guide-figm
         “Everything Developers Need To Know About Figma,” by Jurn van Wissen. bit.ly/figma-
         developers-guide



                                     In the campus bookstore at Design System University

                                     Once engineers get the hang of the basics of Figma,
                                     put it all together with our “How to Use a Design
                                     System in Figma” video course.




    55
     Day 22

#19 Teach Git to Designers
     D Best Engineer teacher   A Non-engineers   C All Engineers   I All Designers



     A core tenet of the Agile manifesto—a public declaration of working the true Agile way—
     is “working software over comprehensive documentation.” In order to get designers
     working more on software than documentation, they need some way to literally
     contribute code. For most organizations, that way is Git.



     You set up a new repository in Activity #15: Create New Design System Repository
     and Package. Now spend half a day teaching designers the basic commands and
     general workflow of using Git, starting with these ideas

          Clonin
          Committin
          Fetching, pushing, and pullin
          Branching, conflicts, and merging



     Start small with designers being able to push new changes to a README file and watch
     their eyes light up. This brings you one step closer to designers and engineers working
     the same way!




     56
#19 Teach Git to Designers, cont.

     Additional resource
         “Why design needs version control,” by Josh Brewer. bit.ly/design-version-contro
         Git for Humans, by David Demaree. bit.ly/git-for-humans




             ️ Extra Credit
         While GUIs for Git are very powerful, teach Git on the command line if your designers are up for it.
         In addition to feeling like they’re seeing the Matrix, you can then introduce a GUI later, giving
         designers two new tools for getting the same thing done.




    57
    Day 23

#20 Teach Storybook to Designers
     D Best Engineer teacher   A Non-engineers      C All Engineers    I All Designers



    Bakers don’t have to understand chemistry, but it definitely helps. Designers don’t have
    to understand how components are built and combined, but it definitely helps.



    You set up public(-ish) URLs in Activity #16: Set Up Public Workshop Environment
    with Branch Deploys, so now it’s time to make sure the entire design system team
    knows what they’re looking at. Whatever tool you choose, spend half a day helping your
    designers understand its structure, how to set it up locally, and where certain pieces of
    information live. Combined with their new skills of writing HTML + CSS ( Activity #17:
    Teach HTML & CSS to Designers) and contributing through Git ( Activity #19: Teach
    Git to Designers), you can create a tight workflow where everyone can own a piece of
    the design system software you’re all creating together.



    Additional resource
         “Storybook for design,” by Dominic Nguyen. bit.ly/storybook-for-design





             ️ Extra Credit
         Storybook’s new-ish Docs functionality allows documentation to be generated directly from the
         code itself. Once your designers are feeling confident enough in Storybook, entrust them with
         being in charge of updating the documentation right in the code. A little primer on MDX and
         knowing where the files live eliminates unnecessary Google docs that need to be translated into
         code by an engineer.




    58
     Day 25–26

#21 Practice Hot Potato
     D Designer + Engineer    A Product Manager     C Designer + Engineer pairs   I Design system team



     Now that designers know a little more about HTML, CSS, Git, and Storybook and
     engineers know a bit more about Figma, it’s time to put that good overlap to use. Enter
     The Hot Potato Process, a workflow where designer and engineer create interfaces
     together by passing the work back and forth in little chunks as often as possible. 



     Block out a day or two to work together in real-time. Start together by talking about all
     the parts of a page you want to create and sketching out content priority guides
     together on paper or using Figma Template: Practice Hot Potato. Jump straight
     into writing code without high fidelity mockups for as many screens/pages as you can.
     Only use a design tool when you need higher fidelity than lo-fi sketches.



     You’ll be surprised as to how fast you can go and how far you can get with such little
     design work!



     Additional resource
          Designer + Developer Workflow. youtu.be/tnkrUt7Ppn
          “Content Priority Guide,” by Emily Gray. bit.ly/content-priority-guid
          “The Hot Potato Process,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/hot-potato-proces
          “The Way We Build,” by Alex Schleifer. bit.ly/the-way-we-build




     59
#21 Practice Hot Potato, cont.




         Figma Template: Practice Hot Potato




    60
     Day 26–forever

#22 Join Pilot Teams’ Sprint  
     Planning Sessions
     D Design system team       A Product Owner      C Designer + Engineer      I Design system team



     Find out how your pilot teams plan for their work and start joining their sprint planning
     sessions. Most teams kick off a sprint and then have weekly and/or daily meetings
     throughout their sprint cycles. Other teams coordinate via Slack. Wherever your pilot
     teams are talking about their work and planning for their work, ask if you can start to
     follow along. (Any easy way to stay in sync with your pilot teams is to ask to be added to
     their daily standup meetings and their Slack channels.)



     Your goal is to ride alongside your pilot teams. They know how to do their best work;
     you’re there to better understand how they make digital interfaces, where they could
     use support, what causes them delays, etc. You’re also there to identify timing and fit for
     your first round of components ( Activity #26: Identify 3 Initial Components to Pilot),
     so it’s important for you to be in tune with how your pilot teams plan to sequence their
     work and what emerges or evolves as they go.  




              ️ Extra Credit
          For your first round of pilots, it’s best to have the whole design system team attend these sprint
          planning sessions. It might feel overwhelming to have so many folks in a meeting, but while
          you’re getting the rhythm of pilots down, it’s helpful for everyone on the team to have a deeper
          shared knowledge of what pilot teams are up to. Eventually, these sessions can be something
          that only the Product Owner and/or DesignOps lead attends—but hopefully your designers and
          engineers will enjoy these so much that they won’t want to miss them!




     61
     Day 27–28

#23
 Practice with an Existing  
     Design System
     D Engineer + Designer     A Product Manager       C Design system team       I Design system team



     Before you create a design system for others to use, build some empathy in a low
     stakes way for what your users’ experience might be by using a design system yourself.
     Divide into pairs or trios with at least 1 designer and 1 engineer on each team. Choose a
     page from your company’s website or app and try to build it using an existing design
     system like Material Design, Bootstrap, ANT Design, or something similar. Create as
     little from scratch as possible, and keep notes about what’s easy and difficult to do in
     the Design System in 90 Days Canvas. This will give you a better sense of what
     you’d like to do (and avoid) with your design system!



              ️ Extra Credit
          Feeling brave? Use your organization’s current design system to really get a taste of what your
          users experience!




                                         In the campus bookstore at Design System University

                                         Once designers get the hang of HTML, CSS, and
                                         JavaScript frameworks like React, put it all together
                                         with our “How to Use a Design System in Code”
                                         video course.




     62
#23 Practice with an Existing Design System, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    63
     Day 29–30

#24 Conduct a Practice Pilot
     D Design system team   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     Before starting to officially work with feature teams, build some shared empathy and
     protocols on the design system team for exactly how you’ll want to work. Divide the
     design system team equally into two practice squads, with each squad having at least
     one designer and one engineer on it. Squad 1 will be the design system team and
     Squad 2 will simulate being a feature team. 



     (This will be easiest if you have a larger team. If you don’t, you may need to be creative,
     like having someone pretend to be two different people during this exercise.)



     Squad 2 should pick a screen that they want to be responsible for creating; for example,
     if you work for a retail company, perhaps you’d simulate being the team responsible for
     a product detail page.



     Start speculating together on what each squad would be responsible for. Discuss
     questions like

          Who builds what?
          Who designs what?
          What are the tasks each team should complete?
          When should those tasks happen? 



     There are no right or wrong answers to these questions; it’s only important that you
     agree and then try to practice what you’ve agreed on.





     64
#24 Conduct a Practice Pilot, cont.

     Map out the process in a flowchart in the        Design System in 90 Days Canvas.

























          Design System in 90 Days Canvas



     Additional resource
          “Design Systems Support,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/design-systems-suppor
          Pattern workflow, by Inayaili León. bit.ly/pattern-workflo
          “Design, system,” by Ethan Marcotte. bit.ly/design-system-ethan-marcott
          “Expectations and responsibilities for design system teams,” by R2. bit.ly/design-
          system-team-expectations




     65
     Day 31

#25 Create a Glossary of  
     Shared Vocabulary
     D DesignOps     A Product Owner    C Design system team   I Entire org



     One of the biggest gaps—and one of the biggest opportunities—of a design system is
     getting people to align. A great way to do that is to start with words. Now that all
     disciplines have had a chance to work together ( Activity #24: Conduct a Practice
     Pilot), use that experience to agree on some definitions, starting with these words

          Componen
          Component Librar
          Design Syste
          Governanc
          Guideline
          Patter
          Pilo
          Reference Sit
          UI Kit



     Make sure the terms you’re defining for the design system glossary fit one at least of
     two main criteria, if not both

          It signals, “This is what this term means
          It signals, “This is what we’ve agreed to call this thing”




     66
#25 Create a Glossary of Shared Vocabulary, cont.

     Document your definitions in the          Design System in 90 Days Canvas. 



     Additional resource
         “The Anatomy of a Design System,” by Ben Callahan. bit.ly/anatomy-design-syste
         “Wordplay: Language Structure in Design Systems,” by Dan Eden. bit.ly/design-
         systems-languag
         “Design System Structure,” by Dan Eden. bit.ly/design-system-structur
         “A Design System Grammar,” by Dan Eden. bit.ly/design-system-gramma
         “From Pages to Patterns: An Exercise for Everyone,” by Charlotte Jackson. bit.ly/pages-
         patterns-exercis
         “Information Literacy Is a Design Problem,” by Lisa Maria Marquis. bit.ly/information-
         literacy-design-proble
         “Your Product Development Documentation Needs a Project Glossary,” by Tammy
         Pearson. bit.ly/project-glossar
         “Design systems and the notorious design-engineering gap” by R2. bit.ly/design-
         systems-gap


             ️ Extra Credit
         Once you’ve defined some terms, start putting those terms in places where people can
         encounter them as part of their natural workflow. For example, if you’ve chosen the BEM
         methodology for how your engineers will write markup and styles, make sure your Figma file uses
         words like “blocks,” “elements,” and “modifiers” too in folder and layer names. Calling them
         anything else signals that you don’t yet have a shared vocabulary between different disciplines.




                                       In the campus bookstore at Design System University

                                       Consult our free glossary for a starting point in
                                       creating your own.



    67
#25 Create a Glossary of Shared Vocabulary, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    68
     Day 32

#26 Identify 3 Initial Components  
     to Pilot
     D Design system team     A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     Using the component list you generated in Activity #14: Conduct Pilot Team
     Product Walkthroughs, highlight the components that appear three or more times.




          Design System in 90 Days Canvas




     69
#26 Identify 3 Initial Components to Pilot, cont.

     Create a new, prioritized list in the Design System in 90 Days Canvas of just
     the components that appear three or more times. The more times a component is
     being used, the higher up on the list it goes.























          Design System in 90 Days Canvas


     This also becomes the initial guideline for which components go into the design
     system: if three or more teams need this component right now, it goes in the
     design system.




              ️ Extra Credit
          “Once is happenstance, twice is coincidence, three times a pattern.” (Adapted from Ian
          Fleming’s Goldfinger.)




     70
    Day 35

#27 Synthesize Themes & Insights
     from Stakeholder Interviews
    D DesignOps    A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



    Using the massive amount of data you recorded from Activity #13: Interview
    Stakeholders, start sorting each sticky into themes. Create a matrix in the Design
    System in 90 Days Canvas with the names of your stakeholders across the
    horizontal axis and the general topics they discussed down the vertical axis. This will
    make agreements and disagreements across stakeholders easy to spot.



    Once you’ve sorted all the stickies, use Figma Template: Synthesize Themes &
    Insights from Stakeholder Interviews to create a presentation you’ll deliver to
    stakeholders to let them know two main things

         Their recommendations and concerns were heard and considered
         You have a plan and that plan is reasonable.



    Here’s a starting point for an outline that communicates those two things

         Cover slide. Have some fun with the design of this slide to tease a higher level of
         quality that a design system will bring
         What’s happening? A short summary of what’s happened ( Activities #1–#24)
         since the last update from this initiative
         What we heard. A prose description of the major themes that emerged across the
         interviews. 1-2 paragraphs max.




    71
#27 Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Interviews, cont.

         A draft plan. What will your team do as a result of what you learned, and how
         will you measure whether or not you were successful
         Stay informed. List the ways stakeholders can keep up with what your team is
         doing at any given time. Bonus points for asynchronous methods like being able
         to check a constantly-updated status page.
         Appendix. For stakeholders that want to check your work. Each slide in the
         Appendix should focus on one of your themes, a brief summary of the insights
         around that theme, and 2-3 anonymized quotes you heard in your interviews.
         Chances are high that your stakeholders may not read through each one of the
         slides in the Appendix, but even if they just skim it, it looks like you know what
         you’re talking about and you did a lot of work to arrive at this point—which you
         did!



     Once you’ve filled in all the slides, export it to PDF (the universal language of
     enterprise) and email it (the universal vehicle of enterprise) to your stakeholders,
     CC’ing the design system team. Email is important because it can be easily
     forwarded to others.



     For extra clarity, create a short video of you—or, better yet, the entire team—walking
     through the report. Tools like Loom and Descript are perfect for this. Don’t dryly read
     through each slide; instead, talk about the things that both confirmed and refuted
     some initial hypotheses you may have had about this design system initiative and
     how that’ll affect your strategy moving forward. Stakeholder buy-in incoming!




    72
#27 Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Interviews, cont.

     Additional resource
         “How to Present Your Research So That Stakeholders Take Notice and Take Action,” by
         Nikki Anderson. bit.ly/present-research-stakeholder
         “Making the most of stakeholder review meetings,” by Alison Harshberger. bit.ly/
         stakeholder-review-meeting
         “Reporting Usability Test Results,” from Usability.gov. bit.ly/reporting-results





             ️ Extra Credit
         At the start of every meeting hereafter, reference this report. Use the phrase, “As we shared in our
         initial findings…” for extra muscle behind your activities. It’ll reinforce that you’ve done the work
         and actively combat many subjective opinions from stakeholders and colleagues before they
         have a chance to creep in.




    73
#27 Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Interviews, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    74
#27 Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Interviews, cont.




         Figma Template: Synthesize Themes & Insights from Stakeholder Interviews




    75
     Day 36

#28 Send First Stakeholder Update
     D DesignOps   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Key stakeholders



     Stakeholders are like investors. They want to know the key points of success, progress
     and most importantly, they want to know how they can help you succeed! Inventory all
     the activities you’ve done over the last month and extract the key highlights, learnings,
     successes and obstacles. Use this simple template to craft and send your first
     stakeholder update to the folks you identified in Activity #10: Identify Key
     Stakeholders and Schedule Interviews. Edit the template in the Design System
     in 90 Days Canvas.

                                                Copy




           What We Did
             High level progress mad
             Links to key artifact
             Share any wins!



           Where We’re Headed
             Outcomes expecte
             Areas of focu
             Links to key artifacts



           How You Can Hel
             What do you need from your stakeholders
             Do you need any introductions
             Are there planning meetings you’d like invitations to
             Want to host a few minutes of a key product meeting
             Do you need support partnering with pilot teams?
             Do you need budget?




     76
#28 Send First Stakeholder Update, cont.

     Additional resource
         “Keeping Subscribers Engaged in Your Design System,” by Catherine Meade. bit.ly/
         design-system-engagemen
         Teachable’s investor updates, by Ankur Nagpal. bit.ly/teachable-investor-updates




             ️ Extra Credit
         If you have to send updates to multiple groups of stakeholders, focus on crafting the narrative of
         these updates for the highest level audience first and then you can apply additional levels of
         detail and context for other stakeholder groups. This way, you’re writing one primary update and
         iterating on it for various audiences.




    77
     Day 36

#29 Create Design System  
     Coverage Map
     D DesignOps     A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



     As you conduct more pilots, you’ll need to maintain a broad view of what components
     are adopted by whom, which ones are in flight, and which teams you’re collaborating
     with. This helps ensure that your focus isn’t too weighted to one segment of the
     business or the product. 



     Create a design system coverage map to track your components in the  
         Design System in 90 Days Canvas. Include business units that have feature
     teams actively creating products across your organization. Using the following
     statuses, document the components you’ve identified from Activity #26: Identify 3
     Initial Components to Pilot. 



          Live: In production, live in the product 

          In Use: Integrated into team’s codebase

          In Progress: actively working on with pilot team

          In Planning: actively collaborating with pilot team



     Continue to update this map as you conduct additional pilots. 



     Additional resource
          “Design System Coverage” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/design-system-coverag
          “Design system and inbound requests,” by R2. bit.ly/design-system-inbound-request
          Omlet, a component analytics tool from Zeplin. omlet.dev






     78
#29 Create Design System Coverage Map, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    79
     Day 36

#30 Set Up Slack Channel for Design
     System Conversation
     D DesignOps       A Product Owner       C Design system team        I Entire org



     Your new design system is more than a tool; it’s a product! That means you have to
     market it and evangelize it. 



     Set up a Slack channel called #design-system-support and add your pilot
     teams. Make the channel public to the entire organization. Invite anyone that has
     expressed interest in staying up to date with what’s happening with the design
     system. As you continue the activities in this workbook, share your wins and post
     your progress in this channel!



     Additional resource
          “Design System Communications,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/design-system-
          communication
          “Long-Term Design System Support,” by Katie Jennings. bit.ly/long-term-design-
          system-suppor
          “Communication plan for design system teams,” by R2. bit.ly/design-system-
          communication




              ️ Extra Credit
          As you’re working with your pilot teams, do it out in the open in this Slack channel. This allows for
          shared visibility and creates intrigue for other folks that aren’t yet actively piloting. Feeling brave
          again? Include automated deploy notifications for pull requests and new version pushes so
          interested parties can follow along in Github!




     80
    Day 36–37

#31 Create Reference Website V1
     D Writer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



    Your reference website will be the front door for many who use your design system.
    Resist the urge to build a custom site at this stage, and instead, use a website
    builder for their ability to have many people contribute to it without writing code.
    Zeroheight is a great choice for its niche features for reference websites, but
    Webflow, Squarespace, and Wix and general website builders are excellent
    alternatives too. This allows a writer to be the main driver of the reference website,
    not an engineer who already has a lot to do.



    It’s important that your reference be unique to the specific needs of your
    organization, but there’s also a rough set of content that any design system user will
    probably be looking for. Use the structure in the Design System in 90 Days
    Canvas a starting point for the sections your design system users may expect

         Hom
         Get Starte
         Guideline
            Accessibilit
            Bran
            CS
            Colo
            Data Displa
            Data Entr
            Error Handlin
            Format
            HTM
            Icon
            Illustration




    81
#31 Create Reference Website V1, cont.

            JavaScrip
            Layou
            Localizatio
            Motio
            Navigatio
            Performanc
            Principle
            Process & Workflo
            Soun
            Spacin
            Typograph
            Voice & Ton
         Component
            Overview (containing Component Status table
            Accordio
            Breadcrum
            Car
            Etc
         Case Studie
         Suppor
         Blog/New
         Abou
         Changelo
         Search




    82
#31 Create Reference Website V1, cont.

    Additional resource
         Design System Page Templates, by 5four Digital. bit.ly/design-system-page-template
         “Structuring documentation in multi-brand design systems,” by Amy Hupe. bit.ly/
         structuring-documentation-multi-brand-design-system
         Design Systems Gallery. bit.ly/design-systems-galler
         “Making Design Systems Public,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/public-design-system
         “Why Your Design System Needs a Documentation Site,” by Catherine Meade. bit.ly/
         documentation-sit
         “Design System documentation best practices,” by Thais Santos. bit.ly/
         documentation-best-practice
         “Useful Sections for a Design System Reference Site,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/reference-
         site-sections





    83
#31 Create Reference Website V1, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    84
    Day 39

#32 Create Component
    Implementation Roadmap
    D DesignOps     A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



    Combine the outputs from Activity #26: Identify 3 Initial Components to Pilot
    and Activity #29: Create Design System Coverage Map in the Design
    System in 90 Days Canvas to create a roadmap for which components you’ll be
    able to serve from the design system and by when. 



    Block off 2 weeks per component as a starting point, with the highest need ones
    first. Match that against the teams that scored highest on the pilot scorecard. Bonus
    points if the highest-scoring teams also need the most in-demand components. 



    If the highest-scoring teams don't match up 1-to-1 with the most in-demand
    components, don't worry. There's no right or wrong answer between the two. Don't
    deliberate too long; pick an order and move on. 



    Once you have a draft prioritization, add your estimated dates to the reference site
    Component Status page you created in Activity #31: Create Reference Website
    v1. 



    Additional resource
         “[Must/Should/Could] a Product Adopt a System?” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/design-
         system-must-could-should




    85
#32 Create Component Implementation Roadmap, cont.




         Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    86
     Day 39

#33 Propose Collaboration Plan to Pilot
     Teams
     D DesignOps   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



     Using the Component Implementation Roadmap you created in Activity #32:
     Create Component Implementation Roadmap, start talking to the pilot teams you did
     product walkthroughs with from Activity #14: Conduct Pilot Team Walkthroughs
     about working with them. You should even have a decent initial sense of where you
     might fit in their workflow from Activity #22: Join Pilot Teams’ Sprint Planning
     Sessions.



     Use this email template to gauge their interest and capacity for working with the
     earliest version of design system:


                                                Copy




           Hi [PRODUCT OWNER NAME]! It’s [NAME] again from the design
           system team, following up from our last conversation with a few
           new ideas of how our teams might collaborate.



           We’ve recently had a look across many product teams to get a
           sense of what components can best accelerate and unify our
           interface design. We’ll be working on the [COMPONENT NAMES THAT
           THIS TEAM NEEDS] components from the weeks of [SPRINTS
           TIMEFRAME], and we think from joining your sprint planning that
           our delivery lines up with then your team will also need these
           components. If you’re willing to tolerate a little “early
           adopter” churn in the process with us, we’d love to take on the




     87
#33 Propose Collaboration Plan to Pilot Teams, cont.

                                               Copy




           responsibility of delivering these components to you so your
           team can focus on other things that are more important to your
           product/feature.



           How does that sound? Is that something you’d be interested in
           talking through more with us?





     It’s important to remember and reinforce that you’re not just staff augmentation for
     this team. You’re working with them to identify and solve problems of scale, so work
     with multiple pilot teams simultaneously so you’re seeing a range of different needs
     for the same component you’ll be supplying.




    88
    Day 39–43

#34 Abstract Component Through Hot
    Potato
    D Engineer + Designer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



    Between the proposals you’ve sent to pilot teams in Activity #33: Propose
    Collaboration Plan to Pilot Teams and the existing, emerging, and interesting patterns
    you’ve identified in Activity #5: Identify Existing Paradigms in Design and Code
    and Activity #10: Identify Emerging and Interesting Patterns in Design and Code,
    you should have a good hypothesis for what components can help accelerate early
    adoption of the design system.



    It’s crucial to abstract a component’s design and code to the level that it supports a
    wide range of use cases, without going so far as to making it too abstract to
    understand. Luckily, the way to strike the right balance is to look at a wide range of use
    cases like you did in Activities #5 and #8.



    Let’s continue working with the card component we looked at in Activity #5.




    89
#34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato, cont.

    Whatever is common—meaning three or more teams need it to be like this—is the
    list of things we need to support by default. Here’s what we previously recorded

           Small-ish sans-serif body copy (8 or 8
           Support for an image, icon, or illustration (7 of 8
           An all caps headline (6 of 8
           Some sort of rounded corner call-to-action (CTA) link that looks like a button (6
           of 8
           Left-aligned text (5 of 8
           Icon/symbol in button (1 of 8)



    Simply taking this at face value still leaves too much undecided. For example, the
    buttons should definitely have rounded corners because 5 of our 8 examples (63%)
    have rounded corners, but what should the radius be? This is where the emergent or
    interesting parts come into play: perhaps folks have been gravitating towards—or
    even just thinking about—an 8-point grid. Even though it’s not an existing paradigm
    yet, this is the kind of “interestingness” that can fill in the gaps.



    Use this framework for what to include and what to leave out:


                   Question to ask                          Action to take

    All
           What does every version of this          Every characteristic is mandatory

                   component have in common?

    Most
          What do most versions of this            Every characteristic is highly
                   component have in common?
               recommended

    Some 
         What do some versions of this            Prepare proposals and/or facilitate
                   component have in common?
               workshop to form consensus


    Few            What do few versions of this             Delay including these characteristics
                   component have in common?




    90
#34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato, cont.




    The trick is not deviating too far from any of the samples to keep all of these
    components recognizable from where they were originally sourced. If you make
    them too different, this one component will look drastically different than the rest of
    an interface that’s not using the design system, which would create a cognitive load
    problem for end users.




    91
#34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato, cont.

    Do the same abstraction exercise for the code observations we previously recorded
    too. Using what’s common, we can come up with markup that looks like this:



















    But that’s not finished. We need names and styling hooks, none of which have a
    clear, existing paradigm. Enter the emerging and interesting paradigms. Is there an
    engineering guild that wants to move toward BEM? Or Tailwind? Sprinkle a light
    amount of the desired common practices in with the existing common practices.



    Also, this is the perfect opportunity to implement some improvements around areas
    like accessibility and performance that have been long neglected.





    92
#34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato, cont.




    Most design systems nowadays are made with some kind of component framework
    like React, Angular, etc. Using React as an example, you’ll also have to define the
    structure of your React component to render that markup, which may look
    something like this:




    93
#34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato, cont.




    While there’s still more to do, this is a great stopping point. Next up: share this work-
    in-progress with your pilot teams!



    Additional resource
         “Crafting Component API, Together,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/crafting-component-api-
         togethe
         “Design System UI is More Expensive Than a Product Team’s UI,” by Nathan Curtis.
         bit.ly/design-system-u
         “Card and Composability in Design Systems,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/cards-
         composabilit
         “Anatomy of a Typed React Component,” by Dan Eden. bit.ly/anatomy-typed-react-
         component




    94
#34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato, cont.


         “Subatomic Design Systems,” by Dan Eden. bit.ly/subatomic-design-system
         “CSS Architecture for Design Systems,” by Brad Frost. bit.ly/css-architectur
         “React Component Composition Explained,” by Felix Gerschau. bit.ly/component-
         compositio
         “Creating the “Perfect” CSS System,” by Lindsay Grizzard. bit.ly/creating-perfect-css-
         syste
         “Content & Display Patterns,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/content-display-pattern
         “When patterns get weird.”, by Ethan Marcotte. bit.ly/weird-pattern
         “Cards,” by Heydon Pickering. bit.ly/inclusive-card
         “Manage large CSS projects with ITCSS,” by Harry Roberts. https://bit.ly/manage-
         large-css-projects-itcss




    95
    Day 44

#35 Share In-Progress Component
    Abstraction Work with  
    Pilot Teams
    D Engineer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



    Before getting too far on your component design and code abstraction, share an in-
    progress version of what you’re working on with the pilot teams that will eventually
    integrate it. That could be as informal as a “hey, can you check something out when you
    have a chance today?” message in Slack with the implementing pilot team engineer or
    a more formal meeting with larger design system team and pilot team.



    Try to schedule these sharing sessions with different pilot teams as close together as
    possible, ideally in the same week or even in the same day if you can, as it’ll help you
    really grok what similar positives and negatives exist across multiple teams.



    Frame this as getting a gut check from them about whether you’re headed in a
    direction that fits with what they’re doing. They may give you feedback about changes
    they want, but don’t commit to making changes just yet. If they press you to answer on
    the spot, say something to the effect of, “That’s helpful feedback. We’ll compare that to
    how many teams have similar feedback to make sure we can make changes that
    scale.”



    For a specific example, let’s look at one of the card components you collected in 

       Activity #5: Identify Existing Paradigms in Design and Code.




    96
#35 Share In-Progress Work with Pilot Teams, cont.

                              The team working on this one may ask you to create an area
                              of a card that can accept a <table>. While this is a very
                              real need for this team, it’s the only instance you’ve seen of
                              that need. Because it doesn’t meet the criteria that three or
                              more teams need this component right now, it’s not a good
                              use of the design system team’s time. Remember that your
                              job as the design system team is really to solve the
                              common problems. The more the design system team tries
                              to accommodate one-off problems, the less focus you can
                              have on solving problems at scale. If only one or two teams
                              are having this problem, it’s probably a feature problem that
                              they can solve at the feature level.




    To say “no” without sounding like you’re disregarding feedback, create a section on
    every component detail page on the design system reference website that’s called
    “Possible future iterations.” Add succinct bullet items that say things like, “Insurance
    team needs the ability to support a <table> at the bottom of Card.” The final list
    item on that section should be a link to the support channel in Slack where any team
    can surface their needs for any given component. If enough teams need the same
    thing, at that point should that graduate to a design system-level problem to solve. 



    Instead of saying “no,” it’s more like “not right now.” 





    97
#35 Share In-Progress Work with Pilot Teams, cont.



             ️ Extra Credit
         Instead of only having a “Possible future iterations” section as a bulleted list on reference site
         pages, use an issue tracker like Linear or Jira to track feature requests and make it public to
         everyone in the organization. Tools like Productboard even have features like being able to
         upvote/downvote feature requests and comment on them to give you a more detailed sense of
         what feature teams are really looking to the design system for.




    98
    Day 45–47

#36 Iterate on Component Through Hot
    Potato
    D Engineer + Designer   A Product Manager   C Design system team   I Pilot teams



    Unless you’re Nostradamus, you’ll likely receive feedback in Activity #35: Share In-
    Progress Component Abstraction Work with Pilot Teams for changes worth making
    that you didn’t initially anticipate. That’s a good thing! You’re triggering the IKEA effect,
    the idea that people place a disproportionately high value on things they have a hand in
    creating. This increases the likelihood that your pilot teams will adopt this component,
    because it’s partially theirs.



    For any feedback 3 or more pilot teams gave you, have a designer and engineer do a
    Hot Potato pairing session to implement that feedback. Ensure that the changes
    manifest equivalently in both Figma components and code.





    99
    Day 48–50

#37 Chronicle the Process
     D Writer + DesignOps   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



     One of the biggest questions that a design system has to answer for any of its users
     is, “What is the typical way to do [x] at this company?” Nike Design Director Hayley
     Hughes says, “Design systems are any set of decisions governed across an
     organization.” Once a team has gone through the work of making a difficult decision,
     capture the decision and its context so that the decision becomes easier for
     everyone else the next time around.



     Shift your mindset from “documenting the components” to “chronicling the system.”
     Yes, it’s important to document component props, but it’s more important to paint a
     picture of the world the component best lives in.



     Use the common interrogatives of “who, what, where, when, why, how” as a
     framework to fill in on the any given component detail page

           Who are the target end users that should interact with this component? Who
           first envisioned this component as a solution to a particular problem
           What problem is this component designed to solve? What content or other
           components should be used in conjunction to make this component  
           usage successful
           Where does this line of code go? Where does this component typically go on  
           a page
           When should this component get used? When shouldn’t this component  
           get used
           Why would I use this component over another
           How did this component come to exist in the first place?




     100
#37 Chronicle the Process, cont.


     Additional resource
       “​The Guideline Gap,” by Linzi Berry. bit.ly/guideline-ga
       “Authoring Component Documentation,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/authoring-
       component-documentatio
       “Design systems, structured content and headless publishing,” by Amy Hupe. bit.ly/
       design-systems-structured-conten
       “How to integrate content guidelines into design system documentation,” by Amy
       Hupe. bit.ly/content-guidelines-design-system
       “Chronicling the system,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/chronicling-syste
       “Design Systems & Magic,” by Dan Mall. bit.ly/design-systems-magi
       “The design systems we swim in,” by Ethan Marcotte. bit.ly/design-systems-we-
       swim-in




    101
     Day 48–50

#38 Issue Pull Request to Contribute
     Newly Abstracted Component
     D Engineer    A Product Owner    C Design system team      I Pilot team



     The design system is ready for its first contribution!



     Push your revised component to the repository as v0.1.0 of the design system. From
     the work you did in Activity #15: Create New Design System Repository and
     Package, this should also make this component available for engineering teams to use
     as a dependency in their codebases via npm, Github Packages, or something similar.



     Additional resource
        Semantic Versioning. bit.ly/semve
        “What are Conventional Commits?” by Mae Capozzi. bit.ly/what-are-conventional-
        commit
        “Versioning Design Systems,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/versioning-design-system
        “Design System Versioning: Single Library or Individual Components?” by Brad Frost.
        bit.ly/versioning-library-component
        “Version Management for Design Systems,” by Patrick Fulton. bit.ly/version-management-
        design-system
        “Using Scorecards to Encourage Adoption of Design Systems,” by Mandy Kendall. bit.ly/
        design-system-adoption-scorecard




     102
     Day 52–54

#39 Usability Test Component with
     Pilot Teams
     D Engineer   A Product Owner   C Engineer + Designer   I Design system team



     Time to see if your pilot teams can use the component all on their own. Send them this
     message:
















                                                  Copy




           Hi [ENGINEER NAME]! Thanks so much for your feedback in our last
           conversation. We have a new pass at the component based on your
           comments as well as some feedback from other teams.



           Would you be willing to do another session with us where you
           attempt to implement this component in your application
           codebase? We’d love 30 minutes with you where you do some
           screensharing and live coding and we can take some notes on
           what’s easy and difficult for you to do?





     Once they confirm interest, schedule the session with them. Here’s a script you can
     use at the beginning of your implementation testing session, modified from 18F’s
     example usability test script: 





     103
#39 Usability Test Component with Pilot Teams, cont.


          Hi [ENGINEER NAME]! Thanks again for making time to talk and work with us. All of
          this has been making our design system that much more valuable for everyone that
          will use it. Your feedback is valuable and will help us determine if our design system is
          as easy-to-use as intended. Just to confirm, we’d like keep this session to 30
          minutes. Does that still work for you?



          Great! If you need a break or to stop at any time, please let me know.



          During this session, I’ll ask you to share your screen and accomplish a few tasks.
          Please be aware that there are no wrong answers. As you go about using the design
          system, I’ll ask you to think aloud as much as possible, to describe what you’re
          looking at, and what you’re trying to do. This will be a big help.



          Also, please don’t worry that you’re going to hurt our feelings. We’re doing this to
          make the design system as useful as it can be for everyone, so we need to hear your
          honest reactions.



          If you have any questions as we go along, just ask. I might not be able to answer them
          right away, since we’re interested in how people do when they don’t have someone
          sitting next to them to help. But if you still have any questions when we’re done I’ll try
          to answer them then.



          With your permission, I’d like to record this call. The recording will only be used to
          help us figure out how to improve the site, and it won’t be seen by anyone except
          those with a need-to-know. Recording this call also helps me, because I don’t have
          to take as many notes. Do I have your pemission to record this call?




    104
#39 Usability Test Component with Pilot Teams, cont.


          Great! Here’s what we’re doing today. We know you’re working on [PRODUCT/
          FEATURE NAME] and you need the [COMPONENT NAME] component that we’ve
          been previously discussing. 



          Before we share our version with you, would you speculate on how long it would have
          taken you to make this component on your own?



          [Engineer answers here.]



          Thanks… that’s a helpful benchmark. Let’s give this one a whirl. Can you please open
          your application environment in your code editor? I’m going to send you a link to our
          reference site with documentation about this component. I won’t say much more
          after that, and I’d love you try and use the documentation as best you can to get this
          component up and running in your application. 



          Sound good? Here’s the link, and you can take it from there.





     Try to be as silently observant as you can for as long as you can, and take copious
     notes about what’s easy and difficult. If they’re able to implement the component
     easily, confirm that this only took them less than 30 minutes against their initially
     speculated time. If the implementation is difficult or they get stuck multiple times,
     ask them what they might have expected or what could have made it easier. Humbly
     take the good, bad, and the ugly feedback to heart, as this is all the stuff that’ll make
     using the design system a good experience for everyone!



     Additional resource
        “Yes, Design Systems Do Improve Developer Efficiency and Design Consistency.”
        bit.ly/sparkbox-design-system-roi




    105
     Day 55

#40 Final Iteration on Component
     D Engineer       A Product Owner      C Design system team       I Pilot teams



     Home stretch! The pilot usability tests should have given you the necessary feedback
     to make some final tweaks for a release candidate of this component. At this point, the
     usability test feedback likely surfaced more gaps in the documentation about the
     component than the code or design itself. 



     Make those changes and push a v0.2.0 of the design system!



     Notify your pilot teams and recommend that they do an npm update (or equivalent) to
     get the latest changes. 



     Additional resource
           “Distributed Ownership,” by Linzi Berry. bit.ly/distributed-design-system-ownership





               ️ Extra Credit
           Depending on the bandwidth of the design system team, you may want to do a little extra work to
           make it easier for pilot teams to get a more complete version of the component in their builds. 



           Have the design system engineers create new branches of the pilot teams codebases and do
           the work to update the component and test for anything breaking. Once any issues are resolved,
           open a pull request to merge the new component in. Instead of the pilot teams having to do a
           potentially significant chunk of work, all they have to do now is accept a pull request. A few times
           of this and pilot teams all over the organization will see the design system team—and the design
           system by proxy—as a valuable asset that makes their work easier!




     106
    Day 57, then weekly

#41 Send Stakeholder Update
    D DesignOps       A Product Owner     C Design system team     I Key stakeholders



    Start the practice of weekly communications using the stakeholder update template
    from Activity #28: Send First Stakeholder Update. 



    Send out your weekly updates at the start or the end of each week moving forward as
    you finish out this round of pilots. Be sure to include the details (and the links) of your
    first component release and the  
    reference site!




              ️ Extra Credit
          Email is a good format for these updates to be forwarded elsewhere, but Slack may be where
          they get consumed the quickest. Find out where your stakeholder groups prefer to get these
          sorts of updates. If you aren’t getting any reactions or responses, experiment with  
          delivery methods.




    107
     Day 57

#42 Extract 3 Overarching Principles
     D DesignOps     A Product Owner    C Design system team   I Design system team



     Now that you’ve successfully piloted 1 component, you’ve likely done some things that
     you’d like to repeat, and you’ve probably done some things that you’d like to avoid the
     next time. 



     Run a retrospective on the process you went through with your first component and
     extract the principles you used to make decisions and prioritize work. This becomes a
     team charter that you can use to guide the way you make decisions moving forward. 



     Look for the decision points. When the team came to a disagreement, what kind of
     criteria did you use to resolve it?

           Did the highest ranked person on the team win? Then a team principle is, “Rank
           breaks ties.
           Did the team take a vote? Then a team principle is, “Majority rules.
           Did you look for a theme of work? Then a team principle is “Accessibility above all”
           or “Performance above all.
           Did one person get to pick the direction? Then a team principle is “Whomever cares
           the most wins.”



     Add these principles to the       Design System in 90 Days Canvas.



     Additional resource
        Fun Retrospectives. bit.ly/fun-retro
        Retrospective, from Atlassian. bit.ly/agile-retrospective




     108
#42 Extract 3 Overarching Principles, cont.

       “Design System – Principles of Success,” by UXPin. bit.ly/design-system-principles-
       succes
       “The Sliding Scale of Giving a Fuck,” by Cap Watkins. bit.ly/sliding-scale-giving-a-fuck




               ️ Extra Credit
           Did your team not have any disagreements at all? Beware: although that may look like the sign of
           a team that’s on the same page, it’s more likely that everyone’s too polite to cause any friction.
           There may be things unsaid, things that could be really valuable to the team if surfaced. Work on
           creating a culture of psychological safety where everyone feels free to voice their concerns and
           desires without fear of criticism. If that culture already exists, congratulations! Continue the hard
           work to keep it going.




     109
#42 Extract 3 Overarching Principles, cont.




       Design System in 90 Days Canvas




     110
     Day 57

#43 Create a List of Potential Design
     System Names
     D Writer + Designer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Key stakeholders



     A leaf blower is a tool, but the Toro PowerJet F700 is a product. Naming something
     elevates it. Elevate your design system from being a tool to being a product that serves
     your organization’s digital interfaces by naming it.



     Have the entire design system team record any ideas you anyone has for what your
     design system could be named asynchronously over the day in the Design System
     in 90 Days Canvas. Keep this exercise simple and light. If the name makes you smile,
     add it to the list.



     The next morning after sleeping on it, highlight the names you still appreciate that have
     particularly strong ties to the organization’s name, brand, and mission but could also
     act as an independent sub-brand. 



     Of the highlighted ones, have the design system team vote on the two favorites. The
     design system product owner makes the final call in the case of a tie.



     Additional resource
           “El reto de nombrar un Design System,” by Dayan Galindo. bit.ly/reto-nombrar-
           design-system




     111
#43 Create a List of Potential Design System Names, cont.




      Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    112
    Day 58

#44 Create Design System Logo v1
    D Designer       A Product Owner      C Design system team       I Design system team



    Start branding your product! 



    Design some logos for the final two names you chose in                    Activity #43: Create a List
    of Potential Design System Names. Have fun!



    Additional resource
       “How to make a logo, for free, in about 5 minutes,” by Marc Hemeon. bit.ly/5-minute-logo




              ️ Extra Credit
          Circulate ideas that have big impact early. Send your logo sketches to your key stakeholders as
          soon as you can. Don’t ask for feedback quite yet, but frame it as an “FYI” (“for your information”)
          so they’re in the loop about where you’re headed.




    113
    Day 58

#45 Add “Design System Office Hours”
     to Calendar
    D DesignOps        A Product Owner      C Design system team   I Design system team



    Set up a semi-monthly meeting to host design system office hours for your designers,
    engineers, and product folks. Your default should be open time for teams to ask
    questions about how to use the system, what pilots are, how they can contribute, ideas
    and nominations for components, etc. You can also host specific working sessions as
    the need arises. 



    Not sure what to talk about? Here’s a starter list of sessions you  
    could host

          Ask Us Anything: What questions are there about this new  
          design system
          Have you repeatedly gotten the same set of questions in your Slack channel?
          Address those in these office hours
          Do Activities # 17–21
          Host a Pizza and Cake Party for a casual hang



              ️ Extra Credit
          “A party without cake is just a meeting.” —Julia Child




    114
    Day 59

#46 Make Design System Swag
    D Designer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



    Work should be fun! 



    Make some swag to go along with your new design system. Make a sticker pack. Make
    hats. T-shirts. Key chains. Koozies. Anything that will help spread the word about the
    system you’re creating. No one was ever mad at some design system cookies!





    115
    Day 59

#47 Send Slack Post about
    Component #1
    D DesignOps   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



    Announcing the release of your first component is huge! 



    Craft a Slack message using the following template to announce the release of the first
    component. Highlight the people on the teams you piloted with and share the details of
    how other teams can use this component in their work. 


                                               Copy




          The Design System Team is excited to announce that we’ve
          successfully partnered with [PILOT TEAM NAME / @mention key team
          members] to pilot [COMPONENT NAME with brief description and
          screenshots]. 



          Check out our reference site [LINK TO SITE] to learn how to
          install this component into your codebase, and when to and how
          to use this component in your feature work. 



          Major shout out to [@mention designers and engineers and other
          folks you partnered with] for being willing investors and
          partners. We couldn’t have done this work without you!



          Next up, we’re working on [NAME OF OTHER 2 COMPONENTS] with
          [PILOT TEAM NAMES]. 



          Our goal in piloting is to understand needs and usage across
          multiple feature and product teams, so if any of these




    116
#47 Send Slack Post about Component #1, cont.

                                                         Copy




             components seem familiar or useful to you, let us know in this
             thread! 



             You can also join us for our next Design System Office Hours
             [ADD WHEN AND WHERE DETAILS] to learn more about how to partner
             with us, our roadmap, general questions on usage, ideas, etc.  





              ️ Extra Credit
          The more you work out in the open, the easier it will be for folks to raise their own hands for
          partnership and contributions. If you have any early work on the other two components, even
          screenshots, consider sharing those as early previews to offer more shared visibility. 



          And remember, you’re marketing a product! Do more than just a Slack post! Host a party!
          Dedicate an office hours session to spreading the news. Are there other department “all hands”
          sessions where you could announce this news? Take advantage of all the avenues you have
          available to you, including asking your stakeholders to help spread the word.  





    117
    Day 60–65, then every 4 weeks

#48 Host “Systems Week”
    D Design system team   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



    You’ve been spending a lot of time working with pilot teams. And rightly so! Adoption is
    the most difficult part of design system work, so to spend the majority of your time
    directly focused on that is the right emphasis.



    So when do you get to do things that aren’t directly related to a pilot teams’ product but
    that you know will make their lives easier? Welcome to Systems Week. Think of
    Systems Week like spring cleaning. Cleaning your grill thoroughly at the beginning of
    the season means you can use it all summer without too much maintenance and build-
    up. Systems Week is when the entire design systems team takes a week off from
    focusing on pilot teams to focus on system tasks.



    Some examples of systems tasks that belong in Systems Week

          Anything that affects multiple components and constitutes a breaking change, like
          changing how spacing works or adding a new namespac
          Adding or changing global functionality, like implementing CSS encapsulation or
          swapping out testing librarie
          Renaming components



    Most of the changes you’ll make in Systems Week will mean you’ll release a new major
    version of the design system. For example, if your design system is in v.1.12.4
    before Systems Week, you’ll likely release v2.0.0 that incorporates any Systems
    Week changes.





    118
#48 Host “Systems Week,” cont.

    3:1 is the right kind of cadence for Systems Week: one week of Systems Week for
    every three weeks of working with pilot teams.



    As you work with pilot teams and a systems task comes up, record it in the 

       Design System in 90 Days Canvas. This becomes your backlog of tasks to do
    in Systems Week.



    Additional resource
       Squarespace’s Design Week 2021. bit.ly/squarespace-design-week-202
       “Visual Breaking Change in Design Systems,” by Nathan Curtis. bit.ly/visual-breaking-
       chang
       “Testing the Components and Behaviors of Your Design System,” by Jon Oliver. bit.ly/
       testing-design-system-component
       “Design system work throughput,” by R2. bit.ly/design-system-throughput




              ️ Extra Credit
          After getting a few team-wide Systems Weeks under your belt, the cadence and size of work will
          start to become more intuitive. At this point, you can start to experiment with the size and
          placement of Systems Week. Perhaps it becomes a Systems Day once every week. Perhaps
          some team members are doing a Systems Week while others are working with pilot teams. It’s
          important that you work more with pilot teams than doing systems work overall, but different
          teams will need Systems Week to have a slightly different shape. Experiment!




    119
#48 Host “Systems Week,” cont.




      Design System in 90 Days Canvas




    120
    Day 60–69

#49 Send Design System Name and
    Logo Finalists to Brand &  
    Legal Team
    D DesignOps   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



    Brand and Legal approval of a name and logo for an internal product can take up to 2-3
    months to get sign off, so you want to get things rolling.



    These teams and departments are also useful allies in recognizing your design system
    as a full-fledged product your organization is investing in. The brand team will want to
    make sure the design system fits appropriately within the suite of other products and
    sub-brands at the company. The legal team will help ensure the name doesn’t violate
    any copyrighted information and also help set the table for a defensible name and
    mark, should the design system be made public outside the walls of the office (and it
    should!).



    Package up your final names and logos and share those with brand and legal
    departments. Here are some scripts you can use to get those processes started.




    121
#49 Send Name and Logo Finalists to Brand & Legal Team, cont.

    Send this to the Brand team:



















                                                      Copy




              Hello brand team!



              One of the most fun things about creating a design system is
              getting to name it! This will create some energy around this
              effort as people start to rally around it, starting with us. It
              also serves a functional need, in that the design system name
              can be used as a namespace in code to avoid collisions with
              other libraries and systems.



              Attached is a PDF of our favorites—with accompanying logos, of
              course—for what this design system might be called. We'd love to
              hear from you about how these could best fit within your view of
              the overall brand at [ORGANIZATION NAME]. Could we schedule a
              conversation about that with you sometime soon?




    Send this to the Legal team:



                                                      Copy




              Hello legal team!



              One of the most fun things about creating a design system is
              getting to name it! This will create some energy around this
              effort as people start to rally around it, starting with us. It
              also serves a functional need, in that the design system name




    122
#49 Send Name and Logo Finalists to Brand & Legal Team, cont.

                                                       Copy




            can be used as a namespace in code to avoid collisions with
            other libraries and systems.



            Attached is a PDF of our favorites—with accompanying logos, of
            course—for what this design system might be called. We'd love to
            hear from you about how these could best fit within your view of
            the internal products at [ORGANIZATION NAME]. Could we schedule
            a conversation about that with you sometime soon?





              ️ Extra Credit
          Instead of just sending a PDF, record a presentation for the Brand and Legal teams so they can
          see and hear your excitement around the design system product and its new identity!




    123
     Day 60–77

#50 Repeat Activities 34-40 for
     Component #2
     D Design system team       A Product Owner     C Design system team     I Design system team



     Do it all again for your next component.

           Make any necessary updates based on your pilot team’s sprint plans  
           ( Activity #32: Create Component Implementation Roadmap)
           Let your pilot teams know if there are any changes to process from the last round
           ( Activity #33: Propose Collaboration Plan to Pilot Teams
           Hot Potato Component #2
                  Activity #34: Abstract Component Through Hot Potat
                  Activity #35: Share In-Progress Component Abstraction Work with 
               Pilot Team
               Activity #36: Iterate on Component Through Hot Potat
           Track and tweak the process to evaluate its strong and weak points  
           ( Activity #37: Writer + Engineer + Designer Chronicle the Process
           Repeat Activity #38: Issue Pull Request for Componen
           Repeat Activity #39: Usability Test Component with Pilot Team
           Get everything buttoned up for the next release ( Activity #40: Final Iteration on
           Component). Release a minor or major version, depending on if you introduced any
           breaking changes
           Repeat Activity #47: Send Slack Post about Component #2





               ️ Extra Credit
           Adopt the practice of a retrospective after each round of components, and track the change and
           progress you’re making as you evolve your practice of piloting with feature teams. Revisit your
           coverage map and keep your progress up to date.




     124
     Day 72–89

#51 Repeat Process for  
     Component #3
     D Design system team   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Design system team



     Following the steps from      Activity #51, go through the process again for 

     component #3.




     125
     Day 90

#52 Congrats! Release Design  
     System v1.0.0!
     D Engineer   A Product Owner   C Design system team   I Entire org



     By now, you have three components that multiple teams are using in production, a
     reference site that tells people how to easily replicate the hard work you’ve done, a
     name for your design system, and excited and bought-in stakeholders.



     Time to make it official. Tighten up any last minute bugs fixes or tiny improvements
     you’ve wanted to make, tag it as v1.0.0, and tell the world.



     Congratulations on making a viable, stable design system!



     Additional resource
        “How to Get Started with a Design System,” by Emily Gray. bit.ly/get-started-design-
        syste
        “Grow your Design System from Good to Great,” by Sandy Lam. bit.ly/grow-design-
        system-good-to-grea
        “How Much of A Design System Do You Really Need?” by Austin Munhofen. bit.ly/how-
        much-design-syste
        “An incoherent rant about design systems,” by Robin Rendle. bit.ly/incoherent-rant-
        design-systems





     126
Conclusion
You did it! You made a design system that teams are thrilled to use—and they’re
already using it! And hopefully, doing the same activities across 3 components has
established some habits that you’ve seen success with and want to continue.



For some of you, those Activities and sequence may have been different than you
expected. You did a lot of work over the 90 days, but there’s also a lot of work that
you didn’t do. What about design tokens? Or a formal contribution process? When
should you set up Figma libraries? Shouldn’t we have established success metrics?
When does motion come into play?



As you probably realized before finishing the last paragraph, this isn’t the end of your
design system work. It’s the beginning.



Hopefully, you can continue to practice the steps that have led to your success.
Some of the Activities were probably difficult the first time, but they probably got
easier as you did them over and over again.



And that’s the beauty of design systems. What’s difficult the first time around gets
easier for everyone as it settles. It gets easier as it’s more familiar, and that’s where
you can fold in some new things, like design tokens or motion explorations or
whatever your pilot teams need you to make easier for them next.



So take a break now! You’ve earned it. Once you’re ready, the next 90 days of design
system work will be ready too.





127
About the Author



                     Dan Mall is the founder of Design System University. He has


                     been a creative director, designer, and developer since 1998.


                     He has taught design systems and collaboration at public


                     conferences, private client engagements, as higher


                     education instruction, and on many podcasts and videos.


                     Dan’s superpower is getting people excited, even when


                     there’s challenging work ahead.






                     Dan is married with two daughters and two dogs. He learned


                     how to swim recently and is down to 40 pairs of sneakers in


                     regular rotation.




Original Contributor



        Crystal Vitelli contributed to the first edition of Design System in 90 Days. She was


        formerly managing director of SuperFriendly. She has been caring for teams at digital


        agencies for over a decade. In addition to scaling design organizations and product


        teams, she's produced many successful digital projects from big web builds, native


        apps, and web apps to large scale pattern libraries and enterprise level design systems.


        Crystal’s superpower is tying themes together to reveal a clear and simple path forward.




128
Books about Design Systems
Laying the Foundations

by Andrew Couldwell



Modular Web Design

by Nathan Curtis



Front-End Style Guides

by Anna Debenham



Atomic Design

by Brad Frost



Frontend Architecture for Design Systems

by Micah Godbolt



Design Systems

by Alla Kholmatova



Expressive Design Systems

by Yesenia Perez-Cruz



Thinking in Systems

by Donella Meadows



Practical UI for Design Systems

by Diana McDonald



Building Design Systems

by Sarrah Vesselove & Taurie Davis





129
About Design System
University

Design System University provides curriculum, courses, and community to support

how you design at scale. If you want to grow your design system prowess even

more, join our community at designsystem.university.




130
01 Assemble the North Star 02 Assemble Design and Code Assets for
Audit 03 Create an Influence Map 04 Collect Feature Teams’
Roadmaps 05 Identify Existing Paradigms in Design And Code
06 Interview Potential Design System Customers 07 Identify Potential
Pilot Teams 08 Schedule Pilot Product Walkthroughs 09 Identify Key
Stakeholders and Schedule Interviews 10 Identify Emerging and
Interesting Paradigms in Design and Code 11 Visualize Your Technical
Ecosystem 12 Interview End Users 13 Interview Stakeholders
14 Conduct Pilot Team Walkthroughs 15 Create New Design System
Repository and Package 16 Set Up Public Workshop Environment with
Branch Deploys 17 Teach HTML & CSS to Designers 18 Teach Figma
to Engineers 19 Teach Git to Designers 20 Teach Storybook to
Designers 21 Practice Hot Potato 22 Join Pilot Teams’ Sprint Planning
Sessions 23 Practice with an Existing Design System 24 Conduct a
Practice Pilot 25 Create a Glossary of Shared Vocabulary 26 Identify 3
Initial Components to Pilot 27 Synthesize Themes & Insights from
Stakeholder Interviews 28 Send First Stakeholder Update 29 Create
Design System Coverage Map 30 Set Up Slack Channel for Design
System Conversation 31 Create Reference Website v1 32 Create
Component Implementation Roadmap 33 Propose Collaboration Plan
to Pilot Teams 34 Abstract Component Through Hot Potato 35 Share
In-Progress Component Abstraction Work with Pilot Teams 36 Iterate
on Component Through Hot Potato 37 Writer + Engineer + Designer
Chronicle the Process 38 Issue Pull Request to Contribute Newly
Abstracted Component 39 Usability Test Component with Pilot Teams
40 Final Iteration on Component 41 Send Stakeholder Update
42 Extract 3 Overarching Principles 43 Create a List of Potential Design
System Names 44 Create Design System Logo v1 45 Add “Design
System Office Hours” to Calendar 46 Make Design System Swag
47 Send Slack Post about Component #1 48 Host “Systems Week”
49 Send Design System Name and Logo Finalists to Brand & Legal
Team 50 Repeat Activities 34–40 for Component #2 51 Repeat
Process for Component #3 52 Congrats! Release Design System v1.0.0!
