  The Actionable Guide to
Starting Your Design System
  The 100-Point Process Checklist
  The Actionable Guide to
Starting Your Design System
    The 100-Point Process Checklist

 Marcin Treder, CEO and Head of Design Operations at UXPin




                         Copyright © 2017 by UXPin Inc.




     All rights reserved. No part of this publication text may be uploaded or
        posted online without the prior written permission of the publisher.

      For permission requests, write to the publisher, addressed “Attention:
                   Permissions Request,” to hello@uxpin.com.
                                 Index


Why Should You Have a Design System?      6

Why Should You Use This Checklist?        8

The Inventory                             9
Create the Patterns Inventory            11
Create the Colors Inventory              12
Create the Typography Inventory          12
Create the Icons Inventory               14
Create the Space Inventory               15
Presentation for the team                16


Get the Support of the Organization      16
Presentation for stakeholders            17


Build a Multidisciplinary Systems Team   19

Make Key Decisions and Establish
Key Rules and Principles                 21
Build the Color Palette                 24

Build the Typographic Scale             28

Implement Icons Library                 31

Standardize other style properties      33

Build the First Design System Pattern   34

Run a Sprint Retrospective              37

Congratulations!                        38

Recommended Reading List                39
Books39
Articles39
                Design Systems in UXPin

                One platform for consistent design and development.




S Y S T E M S

                Design Language                        UI Patterns                           Automated Documentation

D E S I G N
                Sync Sketch with UXPin for             Scale designs consistently with       Documentation syncs everywhere
                a consistent design language: fonts,   Symbols and interactive components.   and travels with library elements.
                colors, icons, assets, and more.




                    Modular design                         One source of truth                   Painless documentation
                    and development                        for everyone                          and developer handoff
                    Scale quickly with design system       Close your knowledge gaps.            Eliminate busywork. Generate style
                    libraries.                             Formalize your design and code        guides, specs, and documentation.
                                                           conventions.




                                    My productivity and developer productivity have both increased.
                                    They love that they can collaborate and move quickly to a powerful
                Tracy Dendy         experience.
                HBO



                                 To book a demo, call +1 (855) 223-9114 or email us at sales@uxpin.com
           Why Should You Have
            a Design System?


Design is more important than ever.


Companies fighting on a hyper competitive global software market can
rely only on experience as a key differentiator. That puts enormous
pressure on designers all over the world to take on more projects,
deliver higher quality and work faster.


Unfortunately, these attempts are set up for failure. Design does not
scale easily and efficiency required by the business is not going to
emerge from thin air.


Scaling design through hiring, without putting standards in place, is
a myth. With every new hire, new ideas for color palettes, typogra-
phy and patterns appear in the product, growing the inconsistency
and increasing the maintenance cost. Every new hire increases the
design entropy.


There’s only one way to stop the growth of the chaos. Committing to
running a design system process. Gradual growth of a design system,
                                                                 7


equals gradual decline of inconsistency and gradual increase of the
speed of software development.


Design scales. But it scales only with a design system.
             Why Should You Use
               This Checklist?


If you’re a designer or a developer, feeling the pressure to deliver
better experience – then this checklist is for you.


Built on the experience of creating an internal design system at
UXPin and interviewing 40+ design and engineering leaders working
on design systems, this checklist will help you:

• Create a foundation for a design system process
• Document inconsistencies in the interface
• Get organizational buy-in into the design systems process
• Build a small design systems team
• Organize design systems sprints
• Run the first 7 – 10 sprints
• Organize retrospectives

Start building your system today. It takes one committed person to
kick off the process and change the way your organization builds
software.
                                                      Time to scale!
                                                      Marcin Treder
                   The Inventory



To begin the process of scaling your design operations with design
systems, you must understand the current state of your design and
development ecosystem.


If you think the experience provided by your product is internally in-
consistent and confusing, or the maintenance of code takes too much
time – you must prove it to get your team and stakeholders on board.


The best way to start is by building an inventory of all the different
patterns, colors, text styles and assets used in the product. The inven-
tory is going to clearly show all the inconsistencies and hopefully let
you build the case for a design system. Creating a complete inventory,
as described below, takes time. You might want to select only few
activities to get the team and stakeholders on board and continue
when you’ll have the full team focused on the task.
                                                                      10


Create the Patterns Inventory

  Take screenshots of design patterns or collect design patterns
   from design projects, to form an inventory of all the different
   versions of patterns.

     Start by collecting different examples of patterns from your
     product(s). Either take screenshots and paste them into one
     place – for example your presentation tool, or your prototyping
     tool or collect project files and take patterns directly from there.
    You can read more about the inventory here.


   Check the frontend code and/or talk to developers about the
   architectural approach used across the codebase. Try to identify
   if the frontend architecture is modular and if you can use it to
   categorize patterns in the inventory.

     Quite often frontend developers work using modular archi-
     tecture that can be used to organize patterns in the design sys-
     tem. Approach with care and a critical mindset, but definitely
     do not ignore what already exists. For example, at UXPin, our
     frontend developers divided CSS into: elements, modules and
     components. That modularity existing in the LESS files helped
     us build a strong foundation for the system and make the in-
    ventory more actionable as our reference document for the
     future sprints.
                                                             11


If modular frontend architecture exists, categorize your
patterns in the inventory using categories from the archi-
tecture.

 Take patterns collected from products and group them into
  categories. For example, if the lowest level of the frontend
  architecture is an element then collect all the buttons and
  place them under a category ‘element button’. You might
  also want to document links to all the styling files associ-
  ated with a given element. Not only will you communicate
 with frontend developers in the same language, you’re also
  showing the full scope of the inconsistencies.


If modular frontend architecture, categorize patterns in the
inventory

 Even if there’s no modular fronted architecture in your
  ecosystem, you have to categorize all the patterns collect-
  ed in the inventory. You don’t have to make the decision
  about the overall architecture of your design system just yet.
  Simply find the common categories for elements (buttons,
 form fields, sign-up forms...), so the team and stakeholders
  can quickly notice where the inconsistencies exist.
                                                                      12


Create the Colors Inventory

A typical source of design inconsistency is the set of colors used across
the product portfolio. For example, the inventorization of colors at
UXPin showed a massive redundancy slowing down the development
process. 116 colors variables with 62 shades of gray were used at
UXPin before the emergence of our design system.


   Traverse the code files and list all the color variables and/or all
    the colors used in CSS files


   Take note of the number of places where a particular color ap-
    pears


    Organize colors by a common denominator. Can be hue, shades,
    tones and tints or simple by similarity (all the grays, reds,
    greens etc.)


    Sum up the number of different colors, color variables and take
    note of interesting anomalies (such as the number of different
    shades of gray)



Create the Typography Inventory

In a complex project, typography can quickly get out of hand. Lack
of consistent typographic scale used across the project makes the
information architecture convoluted and hard to understand for
                                                                      13


users, while it also increases the cost of product maintenance due
to fragmentation of code. By inventorying text styles, you show your
team and stakeholders where styles become inconsistent.


   Walk through the UI and check all the text styles through a
   browser console.


   Take notes of any inconsistencies of text styles in one project.
   Form a typographic scale by ordering text styles in the order of
   the informational importance (from h1 to small text). Create
   multiple scales if necessary.


   If CSS preprocessors are being used – take a note of mixins and
   variables used to generate text styles and try to match them
   with styles in the inventory

     In modern front end development CSS preprocessors are often
     used to generate ready text styles through the usage of mixins
     (e.g Sass mixins). Referring these simple functions in the inven-
     tory helps you communicate with developers and becomes very
     handy for implementation of a new typographic scale.
                                                                      14


Create the Icons Inventory

Icons provide the necessary context for user experience and speed up the
recognition of key actions in most of the interfaces. Inconsistent usage
of icons can lead to extreme confusion of users and increase the mainte-
nance cost. By creating an inventory of icons, you can help your team and
stakeholders understand the pain of not having a design system in place.


    Identify all the icon libraries used across the product


    Mark inconsistencies across the icons (e.g. two icons from differ-
    ent families used in one UI, two similar icons assigned to dif-
   ferent actions, two different icons assigned to the same action
    etc.)


    Check if there are different ways of implementing icons across
   the product portfolio

      There are multiple ways to use icons. Inline SVGs, SVGs as da-
      ta-urls, icon fonts – talk to the development team, or browse
      through the code to understand which methods are used in
      your design and development ecosystem. If different meth-
      ods are in use, it’s worth taking a note since this is likely to
      increase inconsistencies and further slow down the software
      development process. You can learn about different methods
      of implementing icons and their efficiency, here.
                                                                 15


Create the Space Inventory

Space is the key ingredient of any UI and designers and developers
have to manage it efficiently. Add to your inventory different kinds
of grids used across the products and perhaps also dive deep into
paddings in the containers to understand any inconsistencies. Learn
more about space in design systems: here.


   List and document grid systems used across the product portfo-
   lio (if there are any)
             Get the Support of
              the Organization


Before you’ll move forward with the system, you need the support
of your team and stakeholders.




Presentation for the team

   Describe the process of building the interface inventory


   Present the key inconsistencies from every category


   Explain why these inconsistencies are detrimental to the expe-
   rience of users or are negatively affecting the software develop-
   ment process


   Present building a design system as the answer to the challenge


   Explain that building a design system is an ongoing process and
   that you would like to build a small team which to manage this
   process
                                                                      17


   Clarify that all designers and developers will have the right to
   contribute to the system


   Get a clear ‘yes’ from the team



Presentation for stakeholders

   Describe the process of building the interface inventory


   Present the key inconsistencies from every category


   Focus on numbers and the influence on the speed of the pro-
   cess (62 shades of gray, 16 types of buttons, 5 icon libraries etc.)


   Explain why these inconsistencies are detrimental to the expe-
   rience of users or increase cost of software development (hours
   involved multiplied by average salary)


   Present building a design system as the answer to the challenge


   Explain that building a design system is an ongoing process and
   you’d like to build a small team to manage this process
   Emphasize that building a design system will help the company
   deliver better experience to the market faster


   Get a clear ‘yes’ from the team
        Build a Multidisciplinary
             Systems Team


You can build the inventory on your own, but you need a team to run
the design system as an ongoing process. The team not only plans the
system, but also build it, implements it, and promotes it across the
team. Start by planning who you need to efficiently correct incon-
sistencies listed in the inventory and then consider what skillset will
help manage this process long term. Initially, you might not have a
team of full-time contributors, so be ready to manage the team with
partial time allocation. Learn more about building Design Systems
teams here.


   List all the skills needed to successfully fix inconsistencies listed
   in the inventory


   List all the skills needed for a long term success of the systems
   (maintenance + governance)


   Find people with the necessary skills
                                                                    19


     You’ll probably need well-rounded designers and front-end
     engineers, but some teams also need help of DevOps to imple-
     ment certain tools in the build process, or PMs to run a sprint.
     There’s no one correct structure, so you’ll have to think about
     your team, product, and external constraints.


   Check the realistic time allocation that you can get from your
   team

     Many organizations, right at the beginning, do not commit em-
     ployees full time to the team running the design system process.
     You need a realistic time allocation that you can expect from
     every member of the team.


   Clarify the roles on the team and the decision making process

     Make sure that the team understands who’s leading the team,
     who’s making the key decisions about different aspects of the
     system and how the overall decision making process will look like.


   Decide the length of the sprint


   Decide when the team will meet for planning and post-sprint
   meetings

Finalize by bringing clarity to the agile process needed for a design
system. Are you going to work in weekly or two-week long sprints?
When is the planning meeting going to happen? How are you going
to summarize the sprint? When are the planned retrospectives?
        Make Key Decisions and
         Establish Key Rules
           and Principles

Before your first sprint, gather the team and discuss the most im-
portant decisions that have to be made as part of the Design Systems
kick-off. After finding a solution to every problem, make sure that
the entire company understands where you stand.


   Decide whether you’re building the system from scratch or
   treating one of the products as the foundation of the system.

     Some teams like to tie a kick off of a design system process with
     the redesign of a product. Others start with a standard that
     should be improved and distributed across the product portfo-
     lio. If there’s a new part of the product, tested with users, that
     you feel should serve as a standard – start with it and expand
     your approach. This is the approach that we’ve used at UXPin,
     when the newest part of our UI became the foundation for our
     design system.


   Decide whether you’re going to build using existing technolo-
   gies or introduce a new technology.
                                                                21


 The design system might use a tech stack used across the entire
 product portfolio, in one of the products or some completely
 new technology. Naturally, the less popular the technology, the
 more difficult it’s going to be to implement the system and get
 teams on board. An example would be – writing a React.js based
 system with CSS in JS, when a company uses Angular with Less
 preprocessor. Opinions about what’s the right approach vary,
 so please discuss your situation with the team and commit to
 one approach. At UXPin, we’re building the system on React.js
 and Less, which means that the Angular part of the application
 will have to be eventually refactored.


Decide how you’re going to distribute the system.

 Distribution of the system is crucial. Are you going to start with
 one team and one product? Or work across the product port-
 folio and take care of particular features? Make a decision and
 commit to one approach.


Decide what are the KPIs of the system

 Discuss the measurable goals for the system. You can read more
 here.


Formulate your design principles

 Design principles can be a useful tool to bring the entire team
 on the same page with shared values. What are you trying to
 achieve with the system? Higher consistency of interactions?
                                                                22


 Better craftsmanship? Faster implementation? More accessible
 UIs? Discuss and list the common principles.


Communicate key decisions, rules and principles to the entire
company

 Gather all the decisions, rules and principles and communicate
 them clearly to the rest of the company. Consider putting them
 all in a wiki, or listing directly in the documentation of your
 design system (for example in UXPin).
          Build the Color Palette



Kick off your design system process with sprints devoted to unifying
and implementing the color palette. Colors affect all the parts of the
system, so you have to organize them first.


   Use the color inventory to identify the primary/base colors

     To identify base colors, check which colors are associated with
     the brand and which colors are the most prevalent in the UI.
     Aim at forming the full palette in which there is no accent col-
     ors not associated with a primary color and there’s no color in
     the UI not represented in the palette.


   Decide on the naming convention

     There are different approaches to naming colors in a design
     system. You can name colors using abstract names (e.g. #b9b9b9
     – pigeon), actual names (e.g. #b9b9b9 – silver), numbers (e.g.
     #b9b9b9 – silver-1) or functional names (e.g. #b9b9b9 – sil-
     ver-base). At UXPin, we’ve decided to go with the functional
     approach. Names are also used as variables in preprocessor files.
                                                               24


Decide on the system of building accent palette colors

  You can build the palette of accent (secondary) colors by making
  a series of arbitrary decisions (which in some cases might be
  very time consuming and difficult) or use some sort of a func-
  tional approach. At UXPin, we’ve used LESS functions (darken
  and lighten) to derive accent colors from base colors. For ex-
  ample a 15% darker color than our base-silver (#f3f3f3), would
  be called @silver-darken-15 (#CDCDCD). This approach let us
  build an extensive palette with human readable, clean, naming.


Test the color palette against the colors in the inventory

  To assure your new palette will serve the entire design team
  well, make sure you either match, replace or merge all the
  colors used in the current version of the UI. There should be
  no color in the UI outside of the color palette as stated in the
  design system.


Implement new color palette in CSS (consider using a prepro-
cessor and build a list of variables) on a test server


Test how the new palette affects the interface

  Plan an extensive QA checking how the new palette affected
  the UI.


Check the contrast between colors in the new UI. Make sure you
comply with WCAG guidelines
                                                                 25


 Make sure that after the introduction of the new palette all the
  elements of the UI still have sufficient contrast as regulated by
  the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines.


Present the new palette and the UI affected by the palette to all
the product designers


Invite product designers to test the interface and suggest chang-
es to the palette

 Let the product designers participate in the process by testing
  the new palette and suggesting changes. You need them onboard
  to assure them that the new palette is actually going to be im-
 plemented and used in the future projects. Remember – design
  system not used by the product team is dead and useless.


Finalize the palette

 After tests and gathering feedback, finalize the palette and
  communicate it to the company. Add the palette to your design
  system documentation (e.g. in UXPin).


If you’re using variables in a CSS preprocessor, make sure that
names of variables are documented in the documentation of
the design system.


Deliver the new color palette to the tools used by product de-
signers
                                                            26


Make sure that the new palette is going to be implemented in
design tools used by your team (UXPin, Sketch, etc). For exam-
ple, you can use the UXPin design systems library to assure and
manage consistency.
     Build the Typographic Scale



The next part of the system that affects all the other parts is typography.
Not only do you have decide which typefaces will become a standard,
but also you have to build a consistent scale, which is going to build
a predictable information architecture across the product portfolio.


    Choose the approved typefaces


    Build a consistent typescale

      There are different approaches to building a typographic scale
      (read more). You can optimize the scale to serve existing styles,
      or you might try to build a harmonious scale using the golden
      ratio or major second. Ultimately though your goal is to build
      a scale that will be implemented and will fix the existing and
      future inconsistencies. When building the scale, don’t forget
      that you’re not only setting the size of the font, but also weight,
      line-height and other properties.
                                                                 28


If you’re using CSS preprocessors Build Mixins generating text
styles

  Mixins (in Sass, LESS) can be a terrific tool for managing the
  typographic scale and generating the right styles in code.


Test the new typographic scale against the text styles in the in-
ventory

  Test whether you covered all the existing styles. You should
  either match, replace or merge existing styles, so the new scale
  can be implemented across the UI without leaving any text-
  styles outside of the scale.


Implement the new typographic scale palette in CSS (consider
using a preprocessor and building mixins) on a test server

  Build a test environment for the new scale.


Test how the new typographic scale affects the interface

  Check how the new scale affected the UI. Is everything easily
  readable? Are all the text styles covered by the new scale? Does
  the new scale reinforce the right information architecture?


Present the new typographic scale and the UI affected by the
scale to all the product designers


Invite product designers to test the interface and suggest chang-
es to the scale
                                                              29


 Just like in the case of the color palette – involve product de-
  signers in the process. Invite them to review the scale and the
 UI affected by it. Ask them for feedback.


Finalize the typographic scale

 After gathering the feedback, testing and iterating on the scale
 – finalize it, make part of your design systems documentation
 and communicate it to the company.


If you’re using mixins, make sure that names of mixins are doc-
umented in the documentation of the design system.


Deliver the new typographic scale to the tools used by product
designers

 Make sure that the scale is reflected in design tools used by
 your team (UXPin, Sketch....). You can use UXPin’s Design Sys-
 tem Libraries to save all the text scale and make them easily
 actionable in UXPin and Sketch.
        Implement Icons Library



Icons are a very important part of the visual language and should
become part of the system. Finalize the library, choose the imple-
mentation method and make sure that all team members have easy
access to all icons.


    Decide which icons from the interface inventory should become
    part of the system


    Decide which method of managing icons should be used to im-
    plement icons in a design system

      Discuss with the team the ideal method of managing and im-
      plementing icons in your design systems. You can learn more
      about different options and their efficiency here.


    If you’re changing the technology used to implement icons, im-
    plement icons on a test server and thoroughly test
                                                                31


Finalize the icons library to be used in a design system and add
it to design system documentation


Deliver icons to tools used by product designers

 Make sure that icons are easily accessible from design tools
 used by your team (UXPin, Sketch....). You can use UXPin’s De-
  sign System Libraries to save all the icons in an easy-to-manage
 toolkit available in Sketch and UXPin.
               Standardize other
                style properties


The process of adding grid, space definition, and basic style prop-
erties is going to be nearly identical with the process described for
standardizing color palette, typography, and iconography. When
running it in your sprints make sure that:


   Every standard part of the system solves problems of inconsis-
   tency as presented in the inventory


   Every change is thoroughly tested on a test server before the
   implementation


   Testing involves product designers


   Finalized part of the system becomes part of systems’ docu-
   mentation and is communicate to the entire company


   Every part of the system is available directly in tools used by
   product designers (Sketch, UXPin, etc.)
              Build the First
          Design System Pattern


Once all the building blocks of the system are built, tested, implement-
ed, and accepted by product designers and developers, you can start
building up the patterns. This is the task that will never end. Patterns
should always either reflect the truth about the product, or reflect
the aspirational state of the product in the near future. Products
constantly evolve and so should patterns in the design system. Don’t
aim at finalizing all the patterns in a single sprint or even a series of
sprints. Take them one by one and make sure they are implemented
by product teams so you can gradually correct all the inconsistencies
and increase the speed of product development.


   Decide the best architecture for the patterns in your design sys-
   tem

     You can use different models of architecture, or create your own.
     A popular way of organizing patterns in a system is Atomic Web
      Design. At UXPin, we’ve divided our patterns into elements, com-
      ponents and modules, which reflects the modular architecture
      of our front-end code. No matter your naming convention, make
                                                                34


  sure the architecture is modular and vocabulary is understood
  by the design systems team and the product team.


Choose one pattern you’ll work on during this sprint (example –
button)


Make sure that the pattern is using the correct color, typography,
iconography etc. Make changes if necessary.


Review the code. If necessary, make changes to make sure that
the component rendering the pattern is fully encapsulated and
can be implemented in any part of the product.


Review the code again. Make sure that all the coding standards
are given justice. Make changes if necessary


Ask members of the design system and developers working on
the product for a code review


List all the patterns that are going to be replaced by the pattern
in the system


Consult product developers and designers and see if there are
any suggested changes


Implement the pattern on a test server and thoroughly test with
designers and developers from the product team
                                                                  35


Finalize the pattern


Add pattern to your design systems documentation


Document the usage and implementation guidelines


Test the documentation with members of the product team to
make sure that everything is easy to understand


Make sure that the pattern is available in design tools used by
product designers (Sketch, UXPin)

  Make sure that the pattern is easily accessible from design tools
  used by your team (UXPin, Sketch....). You can use UXPin’s De-
  sign System Libraries to save patterns as symbols.
     Run a Sprint Retrospective



You should organize a regular retrospective of your design systems
sprints. Make sure the team keeps learning and improving.


   Summarize the KPIs for first sprint


Questions for Team Discussion

Ask team: what did we do well?
Ask team: what did we learn?
Ask team: what should we do differently next time?
Ask team: what could help us be successful as a team?


Questions for Individuals Sharing

Ask: how did you do this sprint?
Ask: what is your biggest impediment?
Ask: if you could change one thing, what would that be?
Ask: what was keeping you awake at night?
                Congratulations!



Bravo! If you got to this place on a checklist, you’re running the de-
sign systems as a sustainable project. Hopefully you’re already seeing
increases in software development velocity and user satisfaction.
Keep it up!


  A design system is a process and therefore is simultaneously
   always ready and never done.
    Recommended Reading List



Books

The Timeless Way of Building by Christopher Alexander
A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander
Modular Web Design by Nathan Curtis
Atomic Design by Brad Frost
Frontend Architecture for Design Systems by Micah Godbolt




Articles

Nathan Curtis
Design Systems Leaders and Managers
The Principles of Designing Systems
What Will Your Design Systems Deliver?
Contributions to Design Systems
Component QA in Design Systems
Patterns ≠ Components
Light & Dark Color Systems
                                                                   39


Reference Designs for Systems
Tokens in Design Systems
Buttons in Design Systems
Color in Design Systems
Picking Parts, Product, and People: A Team Activity to Start a Design
System
Right-Sizing the Rectangle: Grappling With Hierarchy in Design Systems
A Design System Isn’t a Project, It’s a Product Serving Products
Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle
A Design System’s Reach
The Component-Cut Up Workshop
Balancing Platforms in a Design System


Marcin Treder
Design Systems Sprint 0: The Silver Bullet of Product Development
Design Systems Sprint 1: The Interface Inventory
Design System Sprint 2: One Color Palette to Rule them All
Design System Sprint 3: Managing the Basics
Design System Sprint 4: Design Principles
Design System Sprint 5: Managing Typography
Design System Sprint 6: The Fastest Icons on Earth
The Minimum Viable Design System
Design Systems Are a Language. Product Is a Conversation


Brad Frost
Atomic Design: The Online Guide
                                                                40


Dan Mall
Researching Design Systems
Selling Design Systems
Cooking With Design Systems


WeWork
Selling a Design System at Your Company
The Plasma Design System


Salesforce
Living Design Systems
The Lightning Design System is the Next Generation of Living Style
Guides
Introducing Design System Ops
React JS and the Lightning Design System


Airbnb
Design Ops at Airbnb
Building a Visual Language
The Way We Build


Spotify
Design Doesn’t Scale


GE
The Predix Design System
                                                              41


Intuit
Intuit Design System Overview


Bottomline Technologies
Creating and Scaling Enterprise Design Systems
Beautiful Seams: Creating a Coherent Experience Across Products


Other:
How to Construct a Design System
Design Systems in 2016
The Current State of Design Systems
Design Systems and Postel’s Law
How Designers Can Use Unit Testing to Build Resilient and Happy
Design Systems
What is Design Operations and Why Should You Care?
Component Workshops: Our One-Two Punch for Kicking Off a New
Design System
Object-Oriented UX
The Most Exciting Design Systems Are Boring
The Full-Stack Design System
42
