The design
leader's guide to
redefining handoff
03
     The impact of designer-
     developer collaboration
04
     Chapter 1: Unlock
     collaboration with curiosity
11
     Chapter 2: Communicate
     early and often
18
     Chapter 3: Choose
     your defaults
24
     Working better, together




02            Table of contents
Discover how top design and

engineering leaders break down

silos, align incentives, and empower

teams to build exceptional products

together.



Product development teams face unprecedented pressure to



                                                                                  80%
ship both faster and better. As AI lowers barriers to entry, the

competitive edge lies not just in speed to market, but in

crafting truly differentiated product experiences. In this                        of developers think their


environment, the relationship between design and                                  business would benefit

                                                                                  from designers and
development is business critical. In fact, 80% of developers
                                                                                  developers working more

think their business would benefit from designers and
                                                                                  closely together.

developers working more closely together.




Handoff has become a shorthand for the baton pass between



                                                                                  92%
design and development. But the term itself implies that

there is a distinct “design” phase and a “development”

phase, two sequential parts of a linear process. This might                       of designers and 91% of

                                                                                  developers think there’s
have been true in the past, when waterfall methods
                                                                                  room for improvement in
dominated, but as product development has become iterative
                                                                                  the handoff process.

and nonlinear, handoff has evolved into a more continuous,

ongoing collaboration between the two disciplines.




03                      The   design   leader's   guide   to   redefining   handoff
                                                                     55%
Today, the challenge isn’t just about how to improve handoff
—it’s about reimagining the relationship between designers
and developers. Even when they share the same north star of
shipping exceptional user experiences, their daily realities         of developers think that
can feel worlds apart. Engineers typically optimize for              improving the relationship
                                                                     between developers and
performance and stability, while designers focus on crafting
                                                                     designers would achieve
consistent, well-designed interfaces. “We are literally              faster time to market.
speaking different languages,” says Lauren Byrne, Designer
Advocate at Figma. Layer that on top of bandwidth
constraints and pressure to adopt new tools, and it’s
unsurprising that over 90% of both developers and designers
see room for improvement.

The impacts of poor design-development collaboration can
be subtle at first—a few pixels off here, inconsistent spacing
there—but, over time, they accrue as design and tech debt,
and diminish team morale. As Colleen MacDonald, Product
Designer at Duolingo, puts it: “It’s expensive to build
something, so you want to build it right.” On the flip side,
effective collaboration enables higher quality products,
faster time to market, and improved organizational culture.
“Companies that are well known for their craft tend to shine
from both an engineering and design standpoint,” says
Roshan Bhalla, Software Engineer at Figma. While handoff
looks different at every company, successful teams who see
these benefits share clear patterns. Beyond the tactical work
of file organization and state management, the key lies in
fostering deeper cross-functional understanding, alignment,
and trust.



Read on to learn:
     The key points of tension during handoff and how to address the
     How to foster shared ownership, align teams towards a common goal, and
     decide on a definition of “done
     The mindset shift that unlocks smoother collaboratio
     When to bring developers in and how to set them up for succes
     How to communicate non-negotiables vs. nice-to-have functionalitie
     Tips from Linear, Duolingo, GitHub, and more leading teams

04                     The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Chapter 1: Unlock
collaboration with
curiosity

Designers and developers each bring unique strengths to
product development. Both disciplines need each other to
ship great user experiences, yet they operate with
                                                                       47%
different constraints, motivations, and expertise. Bridging            of developers cite lack of
this gap requires looking beyond traditional role boundaries.          understanding in the
                                                                       development process as a
“It’s more about competencies than roles,” says Hugo
                                                                       challenge when working
Raymond, Designer Advocate at Figma. “You’re trying to find            with designers.
ways to inspire curiosity in each other’s discipline.”


With 49% of developers citing differences in priorities and
motivations as challenges, and 47% citing designers’ lack of
understanding in the development process, it's clear that
both sides could benefit from sharing knowledge and
context. “The developer is going to know what constraints
exist on the code side. Sometimes there are time constraints:
Something that seems really simple in design takes a long
time to build,” says Tom Lowry, Director, Designer Advocates
at Figma. At the same time, developers may not anticipate
the various states they’ll need to build—incomplete states,
loading states, error states—that may not be accounted for
in their design system. While this disconnect can pose real
challenges, it’s also an opportunity to better understand
each other.
05                       The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
 Navigating individual and shared
 constraints
 When developers determine something isn’t feasible, it’s easy
 to interpret that as reluctance rather than reality. The truth is
 typically a matter of trade-offs within constraints—whether
 that’s tech stack limitations, framework restrictions, or tight
 timelines. The rationale is usually technical or structural—not
 personal.

 These constraints can compound as companies scale, forcing
 teams to navigate competing priorities. “Designers, product
 managers, even developers to some degree are now actually
 not only focused on a single goal, they’re focused on many
 goals,” says Roshan. “A designer might have to care about
 the specific products’ users, but also what their design
 system is telling them, and what their manager’s telling them
 other teams are thinking about, and what patterns they
 should be inheriting.” 

 While designers juggle these demands, engineers might face
 pressure from their CTO to prioritize performance or tackle
 foundational projects. “It’ll be hard for me to convince a
 designer to make a certain decision because of a migration
 we’re doing in a completely different part of the code base,”
 says Roshan. “I don’t want [designers] thinking about those
 types of things. But it unfortunately does affect both of us.”



“The teams struggling for greater alignment—that’s
 usually a structural problem based on the incentives that
 go all the way up to the top.”
 Hugo Raymond, Designer Advocate, Figma




 06                      The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Constraints exist at both macro and micro levels.
Sometimes, they’re organizational. “The teams struggling
for greater alignment—that’s usually a structural
problem based on the incentives that go all the way up to
the top,” says Designer Advocate Hugo Raymond. It
might feel like developers don’t understand the
importance of addressing design debt, when the reality is
they’re prioritizing immediate problems like bug fixes
because of organizational pressure. “Engineers are
incentivized to improve their JavaScript knowledge over
CSS,” says Hugo. “The thing designers care about is not
the same as what developers are told they need to care
about, unless they’re sitting in a very front-end role—a
rarity in most companies.”

This is where it’s important for leadership to align.
“There’s a whole conversation still to be had about
design debt, technical debt, and product debt,” says
Hugo, pointing out that many organizations don’t weigh
them equally. “That structural problem is what’s actually
getting in the way of designers and developers
collaborating more closely together.”




07                     The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
A mindset shift, not a cultural
overhaul
At their worst, constraints can feel like one discipline
imposing limitations on the other; at their best, they become
accelerants. The difference lies in mindset. When teams
approach product development as a shared problem space,
they can make thoughtful trade-offs that balance priorities
for designers and developers. It’s a “‘me’ versus ‘we’”
mindset, says Designer Advocate Lauren Byrne.

Without this shared perspective, teams often engage in
unnecessary negotiation. “What you end up doing is arguing
for 120% so that you can hopefully back down to 100%,
instead of just being like, ‘What is 100% for us together?’”
says Jake Albaugh, Developer Advocate at Figma. "We start
with 'How far do I need to pitch?' so that we work back to
'What am I going for?'" Noga Mann, Engineering Manager at
Figma, suggests reframing these conversations: “It’s not
about pushing back—it’s bringing things up for discussion.”

Your handoff process reflects your culture, and while a
complete cultural transformation takes time, an attitude
shift is within reach. “Engineers, at times, can have the bias
that they know more than the designers do,” says Jake. “At
times, designers might have the bias that engineering is too
rigid. It’s a natural trap to fall into those default
perspectives.” You can’t manufacture trust, but you can
assume best intent.

Amy Lokey, Chief Experience Officer at ServiceNow,
suggests rethinking the concept itself. “Maybe we have to
reframe handoff as no longer being a handoff,” she says. “We
are working together until this thing gets to a level of
completeness and quality that we feel it’s ready to ship.”




08                     The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
How emerging technology impacts
handoff
With generative AI and other emerging technologies, product development
has become even more fluid. Amy says that before her teams started
experimenting with generative AI, the handoff process was linear. 

“That doesn’t work anymore because there’s this level of organic
unpredictability with generative AI. We really have to see it live in production
to make sure that our assumptions are correct, because a lot of times we’re
building a new experience at the same time and launching that along with a
new LLM simultaneously,” Amy says. 

Since working with generative AI requires a more experimental approach, it’s
especially important for design and development to stay in lockstep. Here’s
how
   Ensure that developers understand design intent and the nuances of each
   interactio
   Consider pair designing so that design and development can work side by
   side as they iterat
   Embrace a more fluid, communicative process and be open to evolving
   designs as designers and developers experiment together




Understanding is an active pursuit
So how far should designers lean into learning other
disciplines? For many, “understand development work”
translates to “learn code”—a daunting prospect. But that’s
not necessary. “They don’t necessarily need to code, but they
should understand how their design choices impact the
engineering work required,” says Aleksander Djordjevic,
Senior Product Designer at Spotify. “I haven’t gone through
any formal training of learning how to build JavaScript
applications or anything like that. I just looked at code and
tried to understand how it works, and that has helped me get
to a point where I can do simple things myself—and have
deeper conversations with my engineering friends.”


09                            The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
 On a more foundational level, it’s about taking an interest in
 each other’s craft and understanding what they’re up
 against. For example, full stack engineers write code that
 isn’t just front-end while balancing multiple priorities and
 context-switching. “They have all of their rituals and they’re
 probably struggling to find enough time to write code,” says
 Designer Advocate Director Tom Lowry. “Those rituals of
 working closely with design at certain organizations aren’t
 always baked into their day to day.” Similarly, designers need
 focused time to quietly think and solve problems.



“It’s about taking an interest in each other’s craft and
 understanding what they’re up against.”

 Tactically, this means collaborative problem-solving and
 putting in extra effort to bridge the gap. If issues that
 weren’t caught earlier repeatedly surface in quality
 assurance (QA), instead of a designer saying, “I don’t
 understand why that is,” they could spend more time
 watching their developer counterpart build and work through
 bugs aloud. This investment may not feel like direct design
 work, but it will save countless hours down the line.

 This understanding must flow both ways. “You can definitely
 talk about it from both the designer to developer angle and
 the developer to designer angle,” says Oscar Nilsson, Product
 Designer at Figma. “As a designer, I can start engaging in the
 pull requests (PRs)—actually testing the functioning code
 and sort of reviewing the work that’s being done by
 engineers.” It becomes about mutual engagement rather than
 one-sided outreach.




 10                     The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
More broadly, encouraging flexible role boundaries requires
leadership support. “We’re really trying to encourage
people not to read too much into their role definition, and
that it’s okay to cross those boundaries,” says Engineering
Manager Noga Mann. “A developer might do a design riff of
a feature, or design something and build it, and share it for
feedback with the designer. And our designers are also
looking at our PRs.” This mindset shift allows teams to make
shared bets together.




Chapter in review
Key takeaways
Reframe how you talk about handoff     Encourage designers to shadow their   Set the expectation that
—as part of an ongoing collaboration   developer counterparts                designers can review technical
between designers and developers                                             implementations and developers
                                                                             can iterate on design directions


11                          The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
 Chapter 2:
 Communicate early
 and often


 55% of front-end developers would like to be brought into the
 design process earlier—and for good reason. Developers are
 uniquely positioned to identify code constraints, making
                                                                      55%
 early alignment important for determining what’s feasible and        of developers would like to
 what might extend timelines. Involvement at this stage gives         be brought into the design
                                                                      process earlier.
 designers an opportunity to share the intent behind their
 work and explain their thought process. Whether through
 video calls, chat messages, or comments in Figma, keeping
 an open line of communication from the outset prevents
 confusion and unwelcome surprises later.




“Communication is always the big part—getting people on
 the same page about what we are trying to do, and how
 we are going to do it.”
 Jori Lallo, Co-founder, Linear



 12                     The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
“Communication is always the big part—getting people on
                                                                       GitHub believes that
 the same page about what we are trying to do, and how                 engineers should enter the
 we are going to do it,” says Jori Lallo, Co-founder of Linear.        product development
 For some teams, the ideal is pair designing and                       process earlier, a concept
                                                                       they call shifting left.
 developing, where everyone works in lockstep from the
 beginning. “We’re in constant communication on Slack, we
 all work together in the office three to four days a week,
 we sit in a row together,” says Product Designer Colleen
 MacDonald. If that level of collaboration isn’t possible, the
 goal should be to involve developers as early as possible;
 when they’re involved from the start, they can be valuable
 thought partners.

 This collaborative tone comes from leadership. “A lot of it
 is down to how you structure your teams—bringing
 designers operationally closer to engineers and having
 those conversations regularly,” says Reza Rahman, Senior
 Staff Engineer at GitHub. “One of the ways we do that is
 through design reviews.” This aligns with GitHub’s
 philosophy that engineers should “shift left” and enter the
 product development process at earlier stages—even
 during ideation—to assess feasibility and strengthen
 ideas. This approach encourages designers to include
 developers more proactively. “They are tagged into design
 discussions almost daily,” says Reza. The result is a more
 fluid workflow that has changed how products move from
 design to development. “We don’t really have a single
 handoff anymore—we have a continuous collaboration.”




 13                      The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Context is critical
Early involvement allows developers to understand how
something should behave, not just how it looks. “When I’m
looking at a design, oftentimes what I’m seeing is a very
static representation of what I’m going to be building,”
says Akbar Mirza, Developer Advocate at Figma. “As an
engineer, I’m thinking, ‘How is this going to respond to
different screen sizes as a user changes a window?’ and
all the other in-between steps that we might not
necessarily see in Figma.”

This early stage is also when designers can create
prototypes or videos that demonstrate intent, especially
for components that don’t already exist in the design
system. Even a 30-minute conversation can be invaluable
when asynchronous communication falls short. “It’s going
to be a much more organic conversation as opposed to
putting down your bullet points in Slack,” says Designer
Advocate Lauren Byrne.

“Another benefit is that—depending on the rapport and
 level of design collaboration they prefer—developers can
 see the rest of the work in progress. I’ve had experiences
 where they’ve been able to come in and make really good
 suggestions, or point out things I missed while working
 through a problem so it can be incorporated into the final
 handoff version,” says Susan Lin, Staff Product Designer
 at Crunchyroll.




 14                     The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
This approach creates efficiencies for both teams. By
sharing enough context early on, designers empower
developers to independently work through problems and
arrive at the right solution. “Ideally, developers should
have enough context to understand where alternative
solutions might be helpful—and feel comfortable
proposing them,” says Software Engineer Roshan Bhalla.
For example, if a designer explains why they want toggle
functionality, a developer has enough context to
confidently suggest alternatives like a dropdown menu,
without having to ask the designer follow up questions and
await their response—avoiding implementation delays.
When presenting options, it helps if the designer
understands the trade-offs—a toggle might delay
shipping by days, whereas a dropdown could achieve the
same result and might keep the project on schedule.
Meaza Abate, Engineering Manager at Figma, echoes this
sentiment: “Even if we're missing pieces during
implementation, we have enough context to make trade-
offs independently.”

Plus, if the team is using a design system, it’s valuable to
inventory existing components and align on available
libraries and frameworks. “It’s hard to keep track of
everything that’s available and having that counterpart is
nice,” says Clara Ujiie, Designer Advocate at Figma.




15                      The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Communicate the non-negotiables
Sometimes a simple design change can save hours of
development time. “If I can change something in one
second and that will save you 10 hours, I’ll do it,” says
Lauren. But to get there, designers and developers need to
align on the non-negotiables so it’s clear where there is
room for flexibility. Designers in particular should articulate
which elements must remain intact and why—even if it’s
just a few components on a page. They can present both an
“ideal” approach that reveals their vision and a more
“realistic” version, allowing the team to explore
possibilities in between.

When facing too many non-negotiables that might require
scope reduction, Lauren suggests asking, “Where else can I
take from?” What seems flexible to one discipline might
be essential to another. This is where designers should
advocate for elements they strongly believe in; even
seemingly minor design details can significantly impact
craft, quality, and consistency.




16                      The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Case study

How Duolingo approaches designer-
developer collaboration
Software Engineer Sammi Siegel and Product Designer Colleen MacDonald work
together on Duolingo Math, which launched in 2022. Their mission is to “Make
math learning fun” and find product-market fit. Since their product is more
nascent than others at Duolingo, their handoff process is especially fluid, but
they’ve still arrived at a number of must-haves in their process. Here are their
learnings:



Prototype                                Adopt a shared                            Know when to just
whenever                                 language                                  ship it
possible                              “Duolingo has very strong
                                      engineering constraints for the
                                                                                   Sammi describes a time when the
                                                                                   team came under a lot of pressure to
“Oftentimes, we’ll design just enough system-level stuff. Everything seems         launch math games, part of an effort
to get the engineers able to make an to map pretty cleanly from Figma,”            to learn how to gamify Duolingo
initial scrappy prototype, and then   says Colleen. “The labels of the             Math. “We wanted to test as many
we’ll all come together, test it,     different text sizes, the colors, it's all   games as possible to see what
dogfood it a bunch, give feedback,    the same in code.” The Duolingo team         resonated with learners, so we opted
and we just iterate a lot that way,”  labels their brand colors based on           to ship four simple games instead of
says Colleen. “It really enables the  animals, which streamlines                   just one or two more robust ones,”
quick feedback loops that help us     implementation. “We’re like, ‘Oh, this       says Colleen. "They were so simple—
accelerate our work,” says Sammi.     is eel, and I know where to put that in      no extra mechanics, just core
                                      the code,’” says Sammi.                      gameplay, only very simple designs."
                                                                                   Even though those designs didn’t
                                                                                   have extra bells and whistles, they
                                                                                   ultimately met the quality bar—just
                                                                                   at a reduced scope. “We tend to cut
                                                                                   corners on the scope of the feature,
                                                                                   but never the polish or the fun or any
                                                                                   of those elements,” she says.




Chapter in review
Key takeaways
Consider ways to structure your          Encourage your team to play an            Lean on design systems to
team to bring designers and              active role in communicating design       streamline implementation
developers closer together               intent and non-negotiables


17                            The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Chapter 3: Choose

your defaults




While there’s no universal template for handoff that works for


all teams, establishing some foundational scaffolding is


valuable. This becomes increasingly important for larger


teams where dependencies and variables multiply. For smaller


organizations with emerging design functions, more


flexibility may be appropriate. Regardless of company size or


established processes, it’s less about rigid prescriptions and


more about having a clear perspective on what excellence


looks like for your team. Consider developing a position on


several key areas— creating “default” approaches that your


team can adapt as needed




     How to align on scop




     When to make or break pattern




     What the "pencils down" moment should b




     Which beliefs are strongly held




18                      The   design   leader's   guide   to   redefining   handoff
How to align on scope

In highly collaborative environments, it can be challenging
to transition from exploration to decision-making. “Design
has a tendency to open more threads, ask more questions,
do more explorations,” says Engineering Manager Noga
Mann. “It’s really hard to make decisions and eventually
choose what we’re doing and what we’re not doing.” The art
lies in balancing thorough exploration and forward
momentum. 


Here are strategies teams have found effective

     Use a decision-making framework, like categorizing
     decisions as either one-way (difficult to reverse) or two-
     way (easily reversible) doors

     Enlist cross-functional teammates as “tiebreakers,”
     whether that’s a product manager representing the
     user’s voice, or the product marketer maintaining
     awareness of external launch deadlines

     Establish what’s “above” and “below” the line and
     remember that post-launch iterations can continue as
     “fast follow” improvements.




19                       The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
When to make or break patterns

For teams with design systems, having a framework to
determine when to use existing patterns versus create new
designs is invaluable. “There are times when a designer
creates a net new design, even though there’s an existing
pattern,” says Developer Advocate Akbar Mirza. “It’s not
that I’m opposed to creating something new, but leveraging
existing patterns—where it makes sense—can keep us on
track and prevent delays.”


Consider these approaches to balance structure and
flexibility

     Map design and code libraries to each other to avoid
     hidden costs and reduce redundant work

     Create shared ownership between designers and
     developers through joint reviews and pairing sessions,
     increasing visibility into existing patterns and driving
     alignment on when to reuse or create new patterns

     Be intentional when bypassing established patterns—
     share reasoning and acknowledge the departure from
     the system.




20                       The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
What the “pencils down” moment
should be

The distinction between when something feels ready for
development and when it actually is ready can be subtle.
Many teams view shipping not as the final result, but as
another milestone in ongoing iteration—even after
launch. Duolingo, for example, treats feature releases as
“v1,” freeing them from the burden of perfection with
every launch.


Other effective approaches you might consider

     Make “ready for dev” a shared decision by requiring
     approval from both designers and developers

     Align on criteria for post-development changes,
     whether addressing design inconsistencies or fixing
     bugs during QA

     Decide between synchronous or asynchronous
     handoff—either through formal handoff meetings or
     marking files as “ready for dev” in Dev Mode.




21                      The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
How to empower your teams with
asynchronous handoff
When it comes to the “pencils down” moment, designers should feel
empowered to connect with their developer counterpart if they prefer
synchronous handoff. But tools can be a bridge between the two
disciplines, and features in Dev Mode can help teams save time with
asynchronous handoff:



Ready for dev                             Compare changes Annotations
Designers can mark sections, frames,      Dev Mode allows developers to see      Designers can communicate design
and components as “ready for dev”         when a frame or component was          intent and details through Dev
so developers can preview designs         edited and compare versions. “With     Mode annotations. “Before Figma,
before implementation. Developers         compare changes and version            we needed extra meetings for
can view all designs marked with a        history, developers have more          handoff and collaborative
Dev Mode status in a given file and       transparency on when a file has        discussions about interaction
easily identify changes since they last   changed,” says Saurav Rastogi,         states and component behaviors,”
worked in it.                             Staff Designer, Design Systems,        says Oliver Dumoulin, Staff Design
                                          Razorpay. “That helps them to          Systems Engineer, Peloton. “Now,
                                          freeze the files and scope things to   we handle much of that
                                          avoid missing timelines due to last-   asynchronously through Dev Mode.”
                                          minute changes.”




22                            The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Which beliefs are strongly held
Every team operates with different values and principles,
typically established by leadership who set the tone.
Design-development collaboration ultimately reflects and
embodies this culture. Most importantly, teams need
alignment on their non-negotiables—not just design
specifics, but core approaches to work and what they
value most. This is especially true as teams scale.
Articulating and socializing these values help align the
team around consistent processes, shared learnings, and
an established quality bar. “We push direct responsibility
onto the team, giving them the freedom to make
decisions, while setting a standard for them to meet,”
says Karri Saarinen, CEO and Co-founder of Linear.

Other teams we spoke with shared these insights
     Establish team-level principles, like GitHub’s “shift
     left” philosophy encouraging developers to participate
     in the earliest phases of product development
     Operationalize company values, as Duolingo does
     with their company handbook that guides their
     product development process
     Iterate and evolve as new tools and technologies
     transform workflows, just as ServiceNow has in
     response to generative AI.




Chapter in review
Key takeaways
Use tools as a bridge between      Have a point of view on what “good”   Embrace change and evolution in
designers and developers           looks like—and how to empower         the face of new technology
                                   your team to meet the bar


23                          The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
Working better, together
As you address these key areas of investment, consider how
you might empower your team to proactively improve these
workflows and speak up when they see opportunities for
greater designer-developer alignment. “Don’t be afraid to get
in the room. There’s no need to have a divide. More
communication, more collaboration is just a benefit to
everybody,” says Mallory Dean, Designer Advocate at Figma.

Today, collaboration between designers and developers isn’t
merely about shipping faster—it’s about elevating each
other’s craft and the end product we provide to users. When
teams understand each other, work in lockstep, and freely
share feedback and constraints, they can focus less on the
“how” and more on the “what.” As we adapt to evolving tools
and technologies, the most innovative teams will be those
who create environments where both disciplines can do their
best work together.




What’s next?
As a next step, you might consider
     How to work with engineering leadership to align
     incentives and encourage developers to “shift left
     Workflow changes to foster pair designin
     Sharing tactical tips and tricks with your team




24                       The design leader's guide to redefining handoff
figma.com/reports
