Hack the
design
system.
Revolutionize the way your
organization scales design




Sponsored by
This book belongs to:
Hack the
design
system.
Revolutionize the way your
organization scales design




Sponsored by
                                                                6




Edition 1.0
First published by Idean Publishing in 2019
Copyright © Idean and Capgemini Invent
Sponsored by Adobe


ISBN: 978-1-7330511-1-8


Edited by Mindy Reyes
Written by Elisa Pyrhönen
Designed by Jin Kim, Maria Knutsson,
Benedikte Torgersen & Felipe Villarreal


Contributor-in-chief: Pierre-Henri Clouin


Full list of contributors can be found in the appendix.


All rights reserved. This book is published subject to the
condition that it shall not be resold or otherwise circulated
without express permission of the publisher.


idean.com/learn
                                             7




Capgemini Invent helps CxOs envision and build what’s next
for their organizations. Located in more than 30 offices and 22
creative studios around the world, its 6,000+ strong team com-
bines strategy, technology, data science, and creative design to
develop the digital solutions and business models of the future.

Capgemini Invent is an integral part of Capgemini – a global
leader in consulting, technology services, and digital trans-
formation. Building on its 50-year heritage and deep industry
expertise, Capgemini enables organizations to realize their
business ambitions through an array of services from strategy
to operations. Capgemini is driven by the conviction that the
business value of technology comes from and through people.
It's a multicultural company of 200,000 team members in over
40 countries. The Group reported 2018 global revenues of €13.2
billion.

Idean joined Capgemini in 2017 as its design and creative arm.
They’ve since grown to over 700 designers across 22 cities,
transforming businesses through design-led practices and
helping them create more meaningful products and services.

Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences.
For more information, visit www.adobe.com
                                                                8




Contents



1. Intro
   Welcome                                                           13

   Why this book? 		                                                 16

   Who is this book for?                                            18

   What is a design system?       ㅍ		               ㅍ               25

   Success Story - ABB ㅍ                                            36




2. Part 1. The impact of a design system
   The ultimate value of consistency		                              52

   Reducing internal pain-points and inefficiencies		               60

   Creating a shared taste for great solutions 		                   62

   Encouraging and enabling cross-functional collaboration 		        70

   Shifting the focus of your product teams                          76

   Establishing the means to showcase your successes		              86

   Success story - Adobe		                                          90




3. Part 2. Making it a success
   Design systems are made for people		                             106

   Becoming a part of everyday operations		                         112

   Taking portfolio management into account		                       118
                                                           9




   Learning to handle incoming contributions		                 128

   Scaling with pilots, building in feedback loops		           138

   Communication is a deal breaker		                           144

   It’s a custom solution that fits your organization 		       156

   Maintaining design systems		                                160

   Success story - Centrica 		                                 170




4. Part 3. The future of design systems
   What's your next move? 		                                   186

   Questions to chart the future of design systems             188

   Concluding words - Our recipe                               202




5. Appendix
   A bit of terminology		                                      210

   Our Interviewees		                                          216

   Contributors                                                225
Intro   10
        11




Intro
Intro                                      12




“		People are the most
 powerful driving
 force for change and
 adoption.”
        – Risto Lähdesmäki, CEO at Idean
                                          13




Welcome
Idean is turning 20 this year. Throughout our journey, we've
done thousands of design projects for a wide range of
clients. In many ways, our engagements on design systems
have been our most impactful work, touching thousands of
products and services, tens of thousands of employees, and
many many more of our clients' customers and users. We've
seen our clients significantly transform their product and
service experiences as a result of their teams becoming so
much more productive AND creative.

At Idean, our design philosophy is deeply rooted in human
centricity. When we create design systems, it's second
nature for us to think deeply about the many types of users
a design system will serve. The brand and marketing team
guiding brand expression, the product team using and lever-
aging the system to create product and service experiences,
as well as the organization's end users and customers using
these products and services.

People are the most powerful driving force for change and
adoption, and they're front and center in how we approach
design systems from the initial inception through their use
and evolution.
Intro                                               14




“		The design
  system provides
  the structure and
  the underlying ex-
  periential through
  line that unites
  our products.”
        – Shawn Cheris, Director of Design, Adobe
                                            15




We've partnered with Adobe on this critical and fascinating
topic because we share the same vision about the power of
design systems to amplify brands, accelerate transformation,
and unlock creativity and productivity for teams. Through
Adobe and Idean's combined networks, Idean's design sys-
tems experts were able to interview an impressive group of
design leaders that are actively leading design systems.

I hope you'll enjoy reading this book and learning from it as
much as I did. In particular, I hope that it serves as an inspi-
ration to design leaders and practitioners, helping them with
practical insights to advance design in their organization. I
also hope that this book will inspire product executives, inno-
vation leaders, and business owners, helping them amplify
their vision and accelerate the digital transformation they're
leading. And, as always, feel free to reach out with thoughts,
feedback, and ideas!



Enjoy reading!
– Risto Lähdesmäki, CEO at Idean
Intro                                                                16




Why this book?
There are already plenty of resources available on design systems,
but we haven’t seen enough materials that address the human
aspects, the way it shapes your organization or its outcomes.
Hack the design system provides fresh perspectives around
design systems, further contributing to the current conversations
happening in the design community.




How did we get here?                          What are some of the highlights?
To dig even deeper into the patterns that     Every design system is different and
define the success of a design system,        unique to every organization.
we’ve reached out to our friends and          "A design system needs to be the right
extended network, as well as our fellow        fit because it's going to change the way
ideanists to gain their latest insights and    things are done. It always needs to take
thoughts on design systems.                    the starting point and broader context of
                                               the organization into account."
In our interviews with these thought
leaders and leading practitioners, you        Design systems are about people.
can read about their point of views on        People that want to make an impact on
what role design systems play in their        the quality of their products, invest in
organizations, their journey towards the      better communication and decision-
creation of their system, their approach      making, and the people who consume the
to collaboration, and the effects they have   products and services.
seen - be it the impact on ways of working,
end user experience, or the bottom line.      Design systems only evolve and remain
                                              resilient because of the people involved.
17
Intro                                          18




Who is this book for?




In packaging this, we’ve had two types
of audiences in mind:

• Design leaders and practitioners, who
  want practical insights to advance design
  in their organizations
• Product executives, innovation leaders,
  and business owners, who are looking for
  ways to amplify and accelerate the digital
  transformation they’re leading


Use this book for inspiration to a more
meaningful vision for your organization
— one where not only your business and
its customers benefit, but your employees
as well.
19
Intro                                                           20


What is a design system?




           “I think it’s really about the
            long-term vision of products.”

               – J F Grossen, VP of Design,
                Global, HERE Technologies




                                              “It's an operating system but
                                               for user experiences.”

                                                 – Jeoff Wilks, Director, Carbon
                                                  Design System, IBM




        “It's a product that serves
         other products. It's an
         enabler for the organization.
         It makes the production of
         service creation efficient and
         harmonizes the products.”

           – Petri Heiskanen,
            SVP of Design, Idean
                                               21




“In a business, a design system plays
 the role of a facilitator and curator – it
 gives you that historical consciousness
 of what’s been done in the past while
 allowing you to be deliberate about how
 you design for the future.”

    – Hayley Hughes, Design Lead, Airbnb




“It facilitates a lot of things that went
 wrong previously.”

    – Kevin van der Bijl, Design Lead, Idean
Intro                                                             22


What is it not?




                                     “It’s not a magic glue that
                                      fixes everything.”

                                          – Kevin van der Bijl,
                                           Design Lead, Idean




        “A design system is not a thing you do
         and then move onto the next thing.
         It’s something that requires a lot of
         diligence to take care of it and to use it
         the way that it was intended.”

            – Nathan Mitchell, Design Manager and
             Chief Interaction Designer, National
             Instruments
                                                 23




“If the maturity of the
 organization is low, especially
 when it comes to collaboration
 within cross-functional, digital
 teams… Then the design system
 is not the main solution, or the
 only one.”

   – Audrey Hacq, Design Lead, Idean




           "It’s good to make a design system
            engaging and fun and exciting, but
            at the same time it's not the main
            attraction as, on its own, it’s not
            shipping anything to customers."

               – Elisa Pyrhönen,
                Senior Service Designer, Idean
Intro                                               24




“A design system
 is more powerful
 than it appears.
 It’s like a trojan
 horse going into a
 big organization
 to ignite bigger
 cultural change.”
        – Jordan Fisher, Design Director at Idean
                                                                       25




What is a
design system?
At Idean, when it comes to defining a design system in depth, we
say that a design system is a living system of guidelines, reusable
code and design assets, and tools that helps organizations deliver
consistent, on-brand experiences at scale and over time.




Most typically, design systems are built,   The main benefits of a design
used, and maintained by product teams,      system are:
who refer to it when making daily design    • Deliver strong brand identity across all
decisions, or when implementing solu-         touch points
tions in code. Design systems also serve    • Enable cultural change
multiple products over several business     • Save time and money
units.                                      • Increase consistency
                                            • Decrease maintenance
One famous example of a design system       • Facilitate communication
is Google’s Material Design, that’s heav-   • Improve user experience through well-de-
ily used by Google, but also by external      fined and learned behaviors
Android developers who build expe-
riences for their platform. In this case,   A comprehensive design system
Material design increases cohesion across   should contain:
applications for the Android user, speeds   •   Principles and main goals
up app developers work, and reinforces      •   Brand identity assets
Google’s brand value.                       •   Functional patterns (design+code)
                                            •   Guidelines (UX/UI/tech)
                                            •   Tools (UI Kit, pattern library, etc.)
                                            •   Examples and best practices
Intro
Intro                                                       26




Throughout our interviews, each time we’ve asked what
a design system is, we’ve received a slightly different
answer. While we haven’t included all of our favorite
definitions, here are a few that resonate the most often:




        “A design system is a
        platform to create awesome
        experiences at scale. ”




                                     “It has the power to weave past
                                     business silos, and changes
                                     work culture.”




          “It comes with several
          mechanisms to keep it
          evolving.”
27
Intro                                                                  28




Two complementary
approaches to design
systems



The user experience                             The transformation
approach                                        approach

• Getting the latest, shared, reusable assets   • Ensuring a system becomes both stable
  and tools into the hands of digital teams       enough and agile enough to roll out
• Creating a core foundation for a design         changes to different products and services
  language across the organization              • Crystallizing the design system’s gover-
• Aligning and upskilling teams (or units)        nance model and communication strategy
  on how to make the desired user experi-         across the organization
  ence (UX) happen                              • Aligning and upskilling teams (or units)
• Sparking discussions on what else might         on the desired changes, ­including
  be needed to reach a more                       adjusted behavior and roles
  holistic understanding of customers and       • Sparking discussions on what else might
  other end-users                                 be needed to reach the stated vision
• Measuring internal adoption, internal         • Measuring the impact of the system in
  gains, and the impact on end-user expe-         light of more extensive, transformation
  riences                                         initiatives
29
Intro                                                                  30




Who should be
involved in a design
system initiative?



Product/service                                 Senior-level staff
organization(s)                                 and end-users
The people that create and manage prod-         What goes into the system should be vali-
ucts and services need to work together so      dated by either those who lead the design
the system can make it out into the “real       system initiative or the final decision
world.” When these teams collaborate, it        makers. Also, there are many involved in
will clearly show in the customer-facing        the end-user research, brand research,
solutions. A product/service organization       customer insights, analytics, sales,
usually has a mix of internal and exter-        marketing, testers, and customer services,
nal staff, as well as a wide range of experts   and these people might not use the design
from various fields. If the organization        every day. Having a constant feedback
has more complex platforms, e.g., white         loop of actionable customer insights flow-
label products and several B2B solutions,       ing into the system can significantly raise
a wider range of people extend out even         its value.
further.
                                                                31




Brand                                            Tip

It’s not just about the core brand assets. If
                                                 If you find yourself repeating,
we don’t have a holistic understanding of
                                                 “it’s not just for designers,”
the desired brand perception and audi-
                                                 maybe it’s time to call it a
ences, it’s hard to translate internal defini-
                                                 service/product system, or an
tions across all the different touchpoints
                                                 experience system instead.
accurately. For brand units that are more
associated with marketing than the prod-         • Most organizations give
ucts and services themselves, it’s a perfect       their system a name that
opportunity to start bridging that gap.            ties it to their brand or
                                                   organization

                                                 • For example, Adobe
                                                   “Spectrum,” ABB
                                                   “CommonUX,” Centrica

Other business                                     “Nucleus”

stakeholders
Legal, backend services, HR, and inter-
nal communications all have a stake in a
design system even if it’s not on a day-to-
day basis. The same thing applies when
involving any of the other previously
mentioned units. Having a benchmark
awareness of the shared goals and suit-
able ways to get involved can help to shift
the focus forward, beyond the way things
have run before.
Intro                                             32




The five stages of a
design system




For the system curators:

1. Researching and getting initial buy-in

2. Making it through the first months: building
   solid starting points while testing them
   early and often

3. Ensuring early stage adoption and growth

4. Broadening the scope and making it
   more stable

5. Balancing major releases and smaller
   updates to the shared assets and rituals
                          33




For the makers leveraging
the system:

1. First potential advocates and partner units
   engaged in the philosophy and objectives

2. Primary users learning more about the
   principles and getting the first glimpses of
   what it might mean in practice

3. Early successes raise interest, as well as
   questions, suggestions, and worries; more
   people and units become involved

4. Changes start to appear in more products
   and services, leveraging the system to
   varying degrees

5. New initiatives and changes begin to roll in
   as time and energy are freed up
Intro                              34




                        Jeoff Wilks, IBM
                        on how to get
                        started building
                        a design system
Jeoff Wilks, Director
of Carbon Design
System, IBM
                                                                       35




“To me, the easiest way to get buy-in and       business knows that there is a dedicated
 budget for a design system is to create        design system team, and people are okay
 one. And so that begs the question, “Well,     with it?
 how do we get the budget to create a
 design system?” Well, first of all, you        If the initial design team has been trying
 need to have enough designers and front-       to make some of their work systematic
 end developers to create it. For teams         in the form of a smaller design system,
 that don’t have that, they could look at a     and it’s causing acceleration and quality
 system like Carbon as an upstream, and         improvement in products, then at some
 then customize it to their needs.              point, the business is going to say, “we
                                                want more of that.” And so then it
One way or another, you need to create          becomes effortless to have a budget
an initial asset and convince the               conversation. Sometimes the business
organization, “Look, we have this design        tells you, “hey, your budget’s going to go
system that only one or two people have         up. We need more of that design system
initially created, but the teams that are       stuff. So, you’re getting a couple of extra
using it are seeing results. They see an        people, figure out what to do with them.”
acceleration in their development cycle,
and they see a lot better quality in the user
experience.” Those are the two metrics
that you need to move the needle on.

Maybe you have ten designers. Is that
enough to have a design system? I would
argue that having ten designers might
mean you have fewer products, and so the
answer is yes. If you have ten designers,
you could have two people working half
the time on a design system. Or if you’re
an even smaller company with four
designers, you could have one or two
people working a quarter of the time on a
design system.

In my opinion, there’s always room to
create a design system no matter what
your current design budget is. Now, how
do you take it a step further to where your
Intro                                                        36




                      ABB




                      Humanizing
Industry
Manufacturing and
Engineering

Employees
147k
                      technology
Headquarters
Zurich, Switzerland   How an industrial
Design system
creation
                      heavyweight created
14 months             a UX foundation for its
                      digital products

                      ABB is a global technology leader that has started the
                      journey to humanize its technology with a systematic
                      design approach to develop coherent, powerful and
                      enabling solutions that provide meaningful experiences to
                      their customers.
Success Story - ABB   37
Intro                                                       38




“ We have a strong need
  to offer our technology
  in a more humanized
  way to enable our
  customers and users
  to take full advantage
  of our digital offering.
  UX design is the key
  element to meet this
  need.”
        – Marjukka Mäkelä, Head of UX Design, Digital ABB
Success Story - ABB                                           39




As digitalization is influencing even the most complex
areas of the industrial domains in an ever-increasing pace,
established technology pioneers like ABB are looking for
new ways to take their digital offering to the next level
when it comes to the ease of use and consistency in
brand experience.

In 2017, a small group of managers realized that a great
user-experience (UX) design can play a pivotal role in
sustaining a brand’s position in competitive digitally-­
driven markets. At that time, work on a new ABB Ability
PlatformTM was only starting and customer facing inter-
faces were at a nascent stage. Previous efforts in UX had
proven valuable, and it was high time to join distributed
design forces and find a common voice, a common
system, that guided everyone in the digital design.

Together with Idean, ABB started the CommonUX Design
System initiative: establishing a dedicated team with a
versatile design system, providing ABB product teams
and partners a set of shared principles, tools and method-
ologies to steer everyone towards a collective ABB voice
that connects both design and content to the brand.
Intro                                                               40




Kickstarting the journey

A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. For ABB,
this meant trowelling deep into the expansive landscape of ABB
portfolio of a thousand products and understanding diverse
product team needs in the 147.000 employee organization.

A better understanding of ABB’s culture helped the team to
create an ambitious plan. The inspiration came from the collab-
oration with different stakeholders, and efforts were made
to deliver a story of the emerging system. A baseline set of UI
components was drafted to set everyone on the same page with
bold style characteristics.
Success Story - ABB   41
Intro                                        42




Starting from
the deep end
One of the main goals was to define and
carefully select the products that could
spearhead the initiative. By demonstrat-
ing their potential to a broader audience
within the organization, it would make
them possible to replicate and adopt in
other projects.

At ABB, this meant starting at the deep
end with complex products being used in
highly regulated sectors. This was to help
in understanding how industry standards
and legislation could affect the upcoming
design system.
Success Story - ABB   43
Intro                                                                44




Making change exciting

The team put their efforts into making the system transparent.
Collaborating with product teams and creating visceral examples
of how CommonUX Design System could impact user experience
in even the most complex interfaces was essential in gaining
buy-in and adoption among different business units.

The team’s core idea was to first create the foundation of the
design system (i.e., a vision along with design principles and
baseline UI component libraries), and then to start communi­
cating it to the hundreds of ABB product teams. The promo-
tional videos on the new site were among the first actions taken
with the release of the design system in September 2018. The
team wanted to create excitement through videos to showcase a
better future and illustrate the abilities embedded in the human-­
centered design.

To be successful, the team itself needed to stand behind and
believe in the system. They needed to inspire others to follow
ideas of clarity, empowerment of end-users and customers and
the creation of brand coherence. The best examples were brought
together in the form of a book, directing and strengthening the
characteristics of ABB’s design language.



Globally experimental
Many low-fidelity tests were conducted to understand how
designs were perceived in different cultures and context. For
example, the meaning of UI icons was tested with a survey,
asking employees around the globe to describe what metaphors
they associated with the icons. This information allowed us to
create an aligned icon library with shared metaphors, sizes, and
guidelines suitable for all UI’s designed within ABB.
Success Story - ABB   45
Intro                                        46




Enabling collaboration

The small but dynamic community of
designers at ABB was involved in the
creation of the design system from the
very beginning. The design community
focused early on engagement models to
allow everyone to contribute to the system
more productively and help accelerate
and scale the system adoption faster.
The complex industrial solutions require
domain knowledge that is efficiently
accessible within the business units.

CommonUX Design System was aimed
to empower designers and developers
to execute the human-centered design
in their everyday work. The central UX
design team needed to closely collaborate
with tens of business units and apply a
positive service mindset to its practices.
Success Story - ABB   47
Intro                                                                48




A snapshot of survey results




69%                                            63%
Of respondents believed that the               Of respondents mentioned that they
harmonization of user interfaces and           needed to follow some industry-specific
consistency within software products           regulations when creating interfaces.
would have a positive impact on sales.




80%
Of respondents felt that applying
CommonUX would ensure that the
products are on brand.




Running a survey each quarter supports the evaluation of
the current state and impact of the system. It also helps with
mapping awareness levels and unmet needs.

(Participants: 107 participants from every division, from at least
14 countries, 86% ABB and 14% externals)
Success Story - ABB                                                  49




What’s next?

• CommonUX is still young and evolving, and more content
  creation is still on the way.
• Starting from the tangible assets and constant engagement
  within the organization has paved the way for creation of a
  design system.
• Keeping up the momentum and increasing internal awareness
  of the system.
• With more contributors and participants joining in, it’s natural
  to focus on evolving the ways of working.
• Training materials will help increase adoption at scale.
Part 1   50
The impact of a design system                    51




                      Part 1




                      The impact
                      of a design
                      system
                      A design system increases efficiency
                      and creates a bigger cultural impact
Part 1                                                              52




The ultimate value
of consistency
Ensuring and achieving consistency in user experience across
products and platforms is the most commonly mentioned driver to
start creating a design system. Inconsistency in user experience can
make a business look and feel like a completely different company
across different channels.

As the design system matures, consistency starts to cover more than
just the user experience. Consistency can be seen in how the brand
is understood within the organization, what methodologies and
processes are used in product development across teams, down
to the level of how components are built into the code. The design
system helps the whole organization be more aligned and have one
shared vision.




Increased usability and accessibility         have been solved. With further training,
Good design is not designing for yourself.    the team will become more aware of the
Good design is considering all the            choices behind the UI patterns.
situations where a product might be used.
Good UI patterns come with considered         Solutions, instead of individual
micro-interactions and states.                products and services
                                              There’s a special benefit when
When teams are moving fast, it’s the final    establishing consistency for companies
finishes, and in some cases the basic         that serve the same customers and
requirements to meet demands, that            end-users with multiple products and
tend to suffer. With reusable components      services. A design system helps product
at hand, teams don’t have to start from       teams focus not just on their use cases
scratch each time. This means that a          but their customer’s whole relationship
share of usability and accessibility issues   with the higher-level brand. Even when
The impact of a design system                                          53




specific products have a mind of their own,    • We can ensure accessibility and legibility
there are recurring interactions and steps       on a system level through color and type
that customers expect to stay the same.          tokens
For customers and end-users, this kind of      • We can systematize delightful micro-
uniformity can range from the products           interactions through patterns, rules, and
and services merely being more intuitive         components, and we have more time to
to use, all the way to opting for a suite of     build and test them
products because their onboarding costs
are lower.

Stronger, more premium brand
A brand that is consistent with its
standards of quality in its products and
services is more trustworthy and valuable.
Apple is a prime example of this with its
strong focus on craft.
                                                       Tip
A design system is a core mechanism to
scale quality standards across teams that              Highlighting inconsistencies
sometimes have wildly different maturity               in user experience is an
levels. Design systems help raise the                  efficient way to showcase the
bar for what good design looks like in an              need for a design system.
organization.

A design system can express the                        • Prepare a shared
organization’s core values and influence                 inventory deck
the opinions of customers. When you put                • Add slides for various types
more care into the details, it shows.                    of UI elements
                                                       • Include a few bullet points
How do design systems ultimately help                    of guidance: e.g., images of
us reach better quality?                                 current, live products
• We have more time to craft individual                • Invite everyone to
  components, but also spend more time                   contribute to the inventory
  finessing products and services                      • Store a copy of the deck
• We have a systemic way to continuously               • Rerun the exercise again
  iterate on our components as we learn                  after a few months to see
  from their actual usage in different                   any changes
  contexts
Part 1                                                         54



Positioning the design system
within the organization




                                      “When scaling a design system,
                                       scale from value.”

                                          – Christian Aminoff,
                                           Creative Director, Idean




“The design system is a strategic
 initiative. It’s recognized as a
 transformative product within
 Dell that’s leading to change and
 making us faster and scalable.”

     – Josh Baron,
      Senior Principal Product Designer, Dell
The impact of a design system   55
Part 1                                                        56



Increasing consistency to
speed up implementation




                           “We sell business solutions, which
                            typically means customers are
                            buying several products that all
                            need to be working together.”

                                – J F Grossen, VP of Design, Global,
                                 HERE Technologies




“Two years ago, our CEO said that
 it felt like we changed banks when
 we changed channels. When using
 the website, the app, or the portal, it
 didn’t feel like the same bank across
 all channels.”

     – Marie Petit, Leader of the UX Chapter,
      Crédit Agricole Technologies & Services
The impact of a design system                               57




                     “We’re working hard to ensure
                      that everyday work accrues to
                      the company’s priorities so that
                      everything we’re doing can have
                      the broadest impact.”

                          – Joseph McLaughlin, Partner,
                           Director of Design, Microsoft




              “If you were a user of more than one of
               these well-designed—but not cohesive—
               experiences, you would have to learn
               new navigation paradigms and new
               interaction models for doing similar
               things across applications.”

                   – Nick Cochran, Design Practices Lead,
                    ExxonMobil
Part 1                                                            58




                      Hayley Hughes,
                      Airbnb on
Hayley Hughes,
                      Accessibility
Design Lead, Airbnb



                      “Design systems, broadly speaking, are
                       decisions that are manifested and
                       governed to scale across an organization.
                       This means that in the future, they can
                       account for even bigger decisions made
                       about different steps and touch points
                       along a user’s journey. Service design is
                       not deeply considered in design systems
                       today. When you go a level higher, the
                       decisions around a company’s ethos and
                       values means systems require the involve-
                       ment of ethics and brand experts. Even-
                       tually, a mature design system could, in
                       theory, influence the way a company
                       decides or evolves its business model.

                      We’re currently in the process of not only
                      adding more components, but we’re also
                      evolving the visual design language and
                      the interaction patterns of the design
                      system. We’re doubling down on our
                      accessibility focus. It’s a high priority for
The impact of a design system                                        59




the company coming straight from the          coding everything from scratch is faster
CEO, which is exciting.                       than making variations in the system.

There’s an inextricable link between          A system has a moral imperative, whether
design systems and accessibility – and        you design for it or not. When designing a
designing with people who have disabili-      product with good intent, it’s important to
ties as part of your process. A system is a   define what “good” is, imagine the oppo-
mechanism for years of scaling repeatable     site (bad intent), as well as every scenario
success. If you define success by every       in between where it might be repur-
person’s ability to access your product in    posed, hacked, or misused. At Airbnb, our
the ways that work best for them, then        employees also use our platform. They are
that’s what you’ll scale. If you define       also hosts and guests, so they have to chal-
success by how good something looks,          lenge biases intentionally, so they aren’t
that’s what you’ll scale but not much else.   just designing for themselves.
Defining success upfront determines the
impact you make with systems. On top          We’re investing in inclusive design. People
of all that, success is also dependent on     with disabilities who work at Airbnb and
teams using the components in the first       live in our local community design with
place. So, you must also define success       us and test our product. We also have a
by something so inspirational that teams      team focused on anti-discrimination
will want to use the system. I would focus    and the designers who work on that team
on fundamental human rights like access       help us reduce the discrimination in our
as a starting place.                          product and in the experience of being an
                                              employee as much as possible.”
It’s important for us to encourage teams
to use system components and create
variations of them as opposed to coding
already existing components from scratch.
Design tokens and themes enable vari-
ety without sacrificing consistency. We
support teams building brand new
components from scratch, and those are
brought back into the system through a
contribution model. Helping teams under-
stand the difference between a variation
and a brand new component is critical
because accessibility and performance
regressions increase when teams believe
Part 1                                                       60




Reducing internal
pain points and
inefficiencies

A design system is designed to stay. Grow-
ing from a small investment to something      Tip
that can feel big and expensive wouldn’t
be possible without exponentially higher      Implementing a design
returns in the long-term.                     system can cause some
                                              inefficiencies that might cause
Reducing your time (and cost)                 a delay in implementation,
to market                                     always be sure to:
Standardizing shared styles and compo-
nents influences the product organiza-
                                              • Research what the
tion first, and then ripples throughout the
                                                painpoints and
company.
                                                inefficiencies are, and look
                                                for the root causes
Having a shared UI foundation means
                                              • Put a team together to
that assets can work effortlessly together
                                                explore and demonstrate
from the get-go. It makes it possible for
                                                immediate evidence of
teams to spend more time creating and
                                                the increased efficiency
validating alternative flows. You can see
                                                a design system could
these benefits in the early stages of the
                                                provide
process.
                                              • Even after all this, you will
                                                most likely need various
Furthermore, less time is spent
                                                ways of supporting busy
documenting and meeting over detailed
                                                teams to the “new ways of
specifications. After all, the sources
                                                working”
for the latest assets and styles are
The impact of a design system                                           61




already there. Having fewer custom               As a result, onboarding new team
implementations means reducing both              members is easier, bringing efficiencies to
the complexity of code and the number            a new team member’s first day. Designers
of bugs, which then leads to avoiding less       and developers, as well as all their
unpleasant surprises down the line.              closest stakeholders, have an easier time
                                                 discussing potential changes. A number
Build happier, more productive teams             of alignment questions that previously
A well-implemented design system is easy         went unanswered are now answered
to understand and use if and when it:            right away. Checking recommendations
                                                 are made easy. Beyond having shared
• Supports individuals and teams in their        guidance, teams can increase their focus
  daily work                                     on core objectives. Seeing more progress is
• Provides an absolute benchmark for qual-       not only rewarding for the team; it makes
  ity, as well as a clear rationale behind the   it more likely for decisions to be bolder
  decisions made                                 and more ambitious.
• Provides both velocity and stability




                “The design system is a tool that allows
                everyone to work in parallel: copywriters,
                designers, developers, project managers.
                You don’t waste any more time in
                meetings about small details. Developers
                can focus on performance, on better
                quality, and more on advanced solutions.”

                     – Robin Klein Schiphorst,
                     Senior UX Designer, Idean
Part 1                                                                 62




Creating a shared
taste for great solutions
An organization’s mission, vision, strategy, and brand are embedded
throughout the organization. They are widely accepted and are at the
core of everything the organization stands for.

Or are they?




The bigger the organization is, the more       sion-making criteria. Some of these are
specialized experts there tend to be, the      defined as high-level like conceptual
more activities there are, and the harder it   philosophy and principles. Some are
becomes to define what the great solutions     embedded in the technical and design
are. As a result, solutions and decisions      choices of reusable assets, and some are
are pulled into several directions with        embedded in the insights and arguments
each iteration, review, and sign-off along     behind particular decisions.
the way.
                                               A key difference in traditional, high-level
Bridging concepts and practice                 statements of key priorities is that it goes
A design system provides shared deci-          all the way to tangible, practical solutions.
The impact of a design system   63
Part 1                                                       64




Actively inviting
debates of
“what’s good”
A design system also provides a platform
                                               Tip
to debate what’s good and what’s not.
This is what allows everyone to propose
future ideas and challenge day-to-day          Channeling all disciplines:
decisions. It’s these debates and their
curation - the governance of it all - that
                                               • Keep identifying the
define the core of the design system in the
                                                 shared evaluation criteria
long run.
                                                 embedded in your design
                                                 system
Such discussions already take place in
                                               • Go through the definitions
everyday work. A key difference here is
                                                 and shared criteria with
sharing accountability: It’s about having
                                                 different disciplines to
good mechanisms in place for making
                                                 make sure ‘the language’ is
sure it works not just as a once-off but
                                                 broadly understood
proves its worth in multiple instances and
                                               • Find ways to keep these
for multiple teams. It’s also about shifting
                                                 present in the right
the focus on outcomes (for the business,
                                                 moments in everyday
for end-users and customers) as much as
                                                 decision-making
the outputs aka solutions being discussed.



Governance
A design system provides teams with
everything that is needed to create great
solutions that will benefit the customer.
Providing the right amount of governance
The impact of a design system                                      65




and shared ownership will empower
teams to work with the design system.         Tip
But what is the right amount of gover-
nance? Will shared ownership work when        Make tools, not rules.
ten teams are working on different parts
of the solution?
                                              • Philosophy and principles
                                                define a shared direction,
Every design system needs a form of
                                                not the solution
governance embedded in the processes
                                              • Shared components and
and tools. This ensures the survival of
                                                styles are best served with
the design system over time and builds
                                                a clear purpose and some
a culture of collaboration; teams will
                                                built-in flexibility
need to spend more time communicating
                                              • Documentation makes it
with internal stakeholders and potential
                                                possible to provide insights
partners.
                                                that are hard to derive from
                                                the assets alone, but it’s
                                                soon discarded if it doesn’t
Reducing the                                    serve the needs of busy
knowledge gap                                   practitioners
                                              • Discussions and hands-on
A design system can become a
                                                practice are often more
shared knowledge base for the entire
                                                effective for onboarding
organization. It brings best practices and
                                                than any documentation on
most up to date learning into a single
                                                its own
source and helps reduce the knowledge
gaps between teams.

A design system is also a catalyst for
change: as much of the tactical UI asset
work is reduced, your teams may need
to take on new tasks-like research-that
require new capabilities. So while a design
system brings harmony and increases
maturity across teams, it may also
reveal capability gaps that you didn’t
know existed.
Part 1                                                        66



Positioning the design system
within the organization




                    “A design system is the enabler to
                     change the work culture, start the right
                     conversation and allows everyone in the
                     organization to understand the purpose of
                     their role and how they can participate in
                     creating great solutions.”

                        – Kevin van der Bijl, Design Lead, Idean




“A Design System can be the one
 constant thing in that conversation
 that everyone can come back to and
 use as a source of truth.”

     – Nathan Mitchell, Design Manager and
      Chief Interaction Designer, National
      Instruments
The impact of a design system   67
Part 1                                             68




         Iterating ideas
         based on shared
         principles
         Principles become product reality only if a wide range of
         people know and understand them well. With practice
         and iterations, people can feel that there are many ways in
         which these principles can be applied.


         Goal

         To keep the shared principles top-of-mind in everyday
         decision making.



         Steps

         1. Take a look at your high-level principles.

         2. Prepare a large, one-page paper for each set of your
            principles.

         3. Make the context and purpose clear. For example, you
            can write “The Experience” at the top of the page and go
            from there.

         4. Go through the more detailed definitions and keywords.
            Turn these into “How might we…” questions. For example,
            How might we tailor these to people?

         5. Keep the questions short and clear. If needed, add a few
            supporting keywords as reminders of particular things to
            pay attention to.

         6. Make these templates available together with a “quick
            guide” on when and how to best use them.
The impact of a design system                                69




  Tip


   • Using questions instead          Follow up with one
     of rule-like definitions         of these activities
     makes a session feel more
                                      • Use these workshop templates in
     empowering. As a result,
                                        reviews and critiques.
     there’s a chance of seeing
     more creative outcomes.          • Use these workshop templates in
   • Add enough space between           ideation.
     the questions. Even if you’re
                                      • It’s good to share the most effective
     not running it as a post-it
                                        designs and solutions that have gone
     exercise, the space is a
                                        live, as these can be presented in the
     physical representation
                                        design system as specific examples.
     of “making space” for
     alternative ideas.               • If a principle definition is repeatedly
   • If you have multiple sets          proven as irrelevant or ineffective,
     of principles, aka multiple        it’s necessary to check if this is a
     pages, pick only one, or           case-specific exception or a broader,
     a few, for a single session        shared issue.
     to give each question the
     proper time and focus.
   • It’s not necessary to refer
     to the principles all the
     time (there will always be a
     long list of other criteria to
     consider), but regular check-
     ins are recommended.
Part 1                                                              70




Encouraging
and enabling
cross-functional
collaboration
Design systems create a common language across the
organization. Part of it relies on a conscious effort to
cut across silos. The other part is a natural result of the
activities required for setting up a design system.




Including multiple
perspectives

Creating and running a design system         A design system should also be intuitive,
requires buy-in across the organization.     allowing anyone to pick it up and use it
A design system is going to set some         in their daily work. Getting to this point
shared rules and values, even new ways       requires spending time with different
of working. Sometimes it’s possible to       units and disciplines.
build on existing ones and sometimes
it’s essential to encourage new ones. A
design system provides a platform for this
­essential redesign.
The impact of a design system   71
Part 1                                                                  72




A shared                                       Creating the time to
point of reference                             collaborate internally
A user should feel that a brand is recogniz-   A broader consensus of the shared princi-
able across all touchpoints, whether it’s a    ples and priorities tends to make the dis-
marketing campaign or a checkout flow.         cussions during sign-offs and gate reviews
Visual guidelines or core brand assets are     better. Having ready made, on-brand
not enough. It requires involving multiple     assets helps product teams and managers
functions.                                     create mockups faster. This also means
                                               it’s easier to facilitate early stage ideation,
An official, centralized resource makes        collaboration and user validation.
it easier for other units and teams to flag
recurring issues they’re passionate about      Having modern tools and processes helps
and regularly dealing with. At the same        people to work more in parallel, further
time, a design system will bring to light      helping different disciplines and units
new shared knowledge that used to sit          to collaborate better. When work is done
within other disciplines and units.            more efficiently, teams have more time to
                                               work together and learn from each other,
                                               and the design system helps them speak
                                               the same language.
The impact of a design system                73




  Tip


  Training sessions, demos, reviews, etc.
  are a perfect excuse to start inviting
  members from other disciplines.


  • Don’t try to cover everything in one
    meeting, but focus on your topics.
    For example, have social meetups
    around the official, latest guidelines
  • Share invites to open door sessions
    where you answer questions
  • At the end of the session, chat with
    new participants: e.g., Was it useful
    for them? What knowledge do they
    have that would benefit the system?
Part 1                                                   74


Investing in a design system means
investing in communication




               “In a large organization, it’s hard to
                have communication and collaboration
                across all digital products. So, design
                systems can help with that.”

                    – Josh Baron,
                     Senior Principal Product Designer, Dell




         “The biggest impact is that we all
          speak the same design language
          in a meeting even if we come from
          different parts of the organization.”

            – Emanuela Damiani,
             Senior UX Product Designer, Mozilla
The impact of a design system                                   75




             “One of the benefits I didn’t
              anticipate was that people
              really came together.”

                  – Nick Cochran,
                   Design Practices Lead, ExxonMobil




                            “I see better or stronger collaboration
                             between designers and developers. They
                             have the same vision that’s very aligned
                             whenever they have to talk about or
                             explain the interface to a product owner.”

                                – Marie Petit, Leader of the UX Chapter, Crédit
                                 Agricole Technologies & Services
Part 1                                                             76




Shift the focus
of your product
teams towards
value
Congratulations! Your product teams are now working more
efficiently as a result of having a shared foundation and shared
assets to build on.

So now, how are you going to invest that saved time and
energy? What are the new things to consider to manage your
teams successfully?

We've identified several different answers to these questions.
The impact of a design system                                           77




Scale up a design organization                   Invest in more senior experts
An organization determined to raise the          We might also see a shift towards smaller
number of its digital teams will be in a         teams. Reducing the overall headcount is
much better position to do so.                   a clear monetary benefit.

                                                 This also makes it possible to focus on
Document everything                              hiring and talent nurturing on more
Whether it’s embedded in the tools, lives        senior experts or those who thrive in a
on a public site, and made widely avail-         collaborative, cross-disciplinary culture.
able, documentation helps with the
onboarding process.
                                                 Lead with outcomes
                                                 Teams are more naturally able to do what
Shape the culture with                           they were meant to do all along: produce
community-­building activities                   excellent results through considered,
In a big community, the areas that are           well-positioned outputs.
not covered by the design system need to
be developed as soon as possible, such as        For management (and the teams), the
hiring and career paths. If DevOps and           question to consider is if the teams' key
DesignOps teams are already in place (or         performance indicators (KPIs) currently in
any other suitable operations manage-            place, are still the right ones.
ment model), great. If not, it’s time to start
investigating.
Part 1                                                                78




Are design
systems killing
creativity?
The answer depends on who you are asking.

As the governance of shared UI assets becomes centralized
(and in some ways, much more distributed), there’s less detailed
UI work to go around within product teams. For craft driven UI
experts (and the occasional product owner) this can be felt like
a loss, especially if there are limited opportunities to contribute
to the system.

For many UX experts (be their specialty in design or
development, or otherwise), being able to produce prototypes
faster and spend more time testing alternatives is an advantage.
Release cycles may stay the same, but the quality and scale of
changes might rise drastically.

Soon, teams will come up with solutions to deliver beyond the
organization’s current capabilities. This means more time is
spent selling ideas internally. The better an organization can
scale these bottom-up initiatives, the bigger leaps the whole
organization might ultimately take.
The impact of a design system                                      79




  Tip


  A design system that’s tied to
  live products can bring the most
  operational benefits. It also requires
  more stability and less breaking
  changes. To cater to that and keep
  a healthy flow of new perspectives:


  • Organize hackathons that allow
    individuals and teams to go wild,
    stepping beyond the system for
    a moment
  • Make sure to map not just the
    alternative directions, but the
    underlying reasons that make
    these enticing to the teams




  Tip


  Few design systems will cover 100% of live UI assets. Ownership of the
  journeys, as well as the more unique, advanced, and specialized assets,
  remain within the product teams.



  • Make it easier (and more rewarding) for teams to use existing, shared,
    basic assets other than creating custom versions
  • Make it easier for teams to build on the current principles and founda-
    tions, even when an asset is not (yet) part of the system
Part 1                                                         80


Investing saved time and energy into...




              “Focus on the bigger picture,
              on the customer problem you’re
              looking to solve.”

                  – Matthew Gottschalk,
                  Design Operations Manager, Centrica




                                             “Put that saved time into
                                             considering better products.”

                                                 – Christian Aminoff,
                                                 Creative Director, Idean



 “We’re building a design system
 so that designers can focus on
 creativity, inspiration, the global
 layout of the screen, and the
 steps of the journey.”

         – Marie Petit, Leader of the
         UX Chapter, Crédit Agricole
         Technologies & Services
The impact of a design system                              81




                    “Right now we’re focused heavily on
                    figuring out how to use design thinking,
                    creativity, and collaboration as a more
                    strategic tool for the business.”

                        – Jason Cyr, Director,
                        Design Transformation, Cisco




                    “Enable these teams to focus
                    on their product, category, and
                    brand expression, but evolve the
                    foundation together.”

                        – Joseph McLaughlin, Director of
                        Design, Microsoft
Part 1                                                                   82




                             From...to...
                             statements
                             There are always other initiatives and targets around. Align-
                             ing the design system with current causes helps drive both.


                             Goal

                             Map desired changes, painting a picture of “before” and
                             “after.”



                             Steps

                             1. Interview key stakeholders and intended users on their
                                daily work, current bottlenecks/pain points, current
                                initiatives/motivations, as well as expectations for the
                                design system.

                             2. Summarize essential findings into “from… to” statements
                                that help to identify what is going to change.

                             3. Use the summary as a part of your communication and
                                training package.




  Tip


   • Focus on activities and behaviors that take place in everyday work.
   • Use short but descriptive sentences, one sentence per box.
   • Keep it as a single-page summary. Any more than 6-7 items
     becomes too much to remember. Prioritize if need be.
   • You can also use the template in workshops, co-creating the
     statements. In this case, facilitate the session in a way that minimizes
     “power biases,” allowing each voice to be heard.
The impact of a design system                          83




     From...                       ...to




                                Follow up with one of these activities:

                                • Use the summary to discuss how the
                                  design system might be used to realize
                                  the desired changes.

                                • Refer to the desired, future state when
                                  discussing priorities and defining
                                  metrics.

                                • When working with individuals and
                                  teams, keep looking out for, as well as
                                  nudging towards the desired changes.
Part 1                                                              84




Cheat sheet -
Questions to map the
current baseline


Enabling collaboration                       Increasing productivity
• What’s the customer experience like?
                                             and efficiency
  (as customers describe it)?
                                             • How quickly can new, potential
• What’s the brand perception like?
                                               offerings be brought to market?
• What’s the customer satisfaction rating?
                                             • How quickly can new features be
• What’s the usability rating?
                                               shipped?
• What’s the accessibility rating?
                                             • How many alternative solutions/
• What’s the technical performance
                                               iterations can be explored within
  rating?
                                               a sprint?
• How much variation is there across
                                             • How long does it take to introduce a
  the different products and services /
                                               new view, flow, or journey for testing?
  different journeys?
                                             • How long does preparing and running
• How much time are teams “blindly”
                                               a handover to implementation take?
  spending on learning and running
                                             • How many bugs are there?
  experiments vs. churning out updates?
                                             • How much effort is required to
• How many category-defining products
                                               implement changes?
  and services are in the organization’s
                                             • How often are basic assets re-created
  portfolio?
                                               across the different instances, teams,
                                               and over time?
                                             • What’s the overall long haul?
The impact of a design system                                      85




Greater cross-disciplinary, Nurturing talent and
cross-functional            creativity
collaboration               • How long does it take to onboard new
                                              team members?
• Is there a common language to describe
                                            • How big are the talent gaps between
  what’s good and what’s not?
                                              different teams?
• Are there shared principles that
                                            • What is the typical “maker” profile like?
  resonate across different teams and
                                            • What are the typical career tracks for
  units?
                                             “makers” like?
• Are these shared evaluation criteria
                                            • What is the employee profile like?
  present in reviews and sign-offs?
                                            • What do “the makers” spend most of
• Are there shared practices and rituals
                                              their time on?
  for makers of different kinds and
  specialties?
• How satisfied are designers and
  developers with each others’ work?
• Are there ways to evolve and govern
  what’s considered the latest and best?
• How active is the grass-root iteration
  and promotion within the key, strategic
  areas?
Part 1                                                                   86




Establish the means
to showcase your
successes
Based on our interviews, it tends to take a      • Scale: Most design system projects are
relatively long time until there’s a formal,       ambitious. There’s a tendency to think
established way of measuring a design             “wait, we haven’t reached this and that
system. Metrics evolve. Early on, anec-            milestone yet…”
dotal proof points might be enough, e.g.,        • Origins: As the name suggests, design
pilot teams measuring productivity and             systems grew from a broad discipline.
velocity with their release or leveraging          While this might be changing, design-
existing metrics like customer success             ers haven’t traditionally been trained
metrics. We believe that having conscious,         on metrics and impact assessment at a
clearly stated objectives not only helps           higher organizational (or even a finan-
the team make better decisions along the           cial) level.
way; it’s powerful when showcasing your          • No benchmark: There are no ready-set
successes.                                         sources for it. If there is no established
                                                   benchmark to compare measures
‘We know metrics are important, but’...            against, it’s harder to get to the data in
Measuring the absolute impact of a design          the first place. It’s harder to say whether
system seems difficult. We’ve identified a         to what a degree a result is good or
number of reasons why this might be so:            concerning. It also requires some
                                                   consideration to come up with potential
• Prioritization: There are several, poten-        samples and comparison points.
  tial benefits and aspects to pick from         • Multiple stakeholders: Everyone values
  (especially if you’re an advocate).              different things at different levels.
• Built-in delays: The design system               When it comes to more specific goals,
  needs some solid groundwork as well as           in particular, it’s good to keep actively
  a series of roll-outs for the benefits to be     listening to what contributors and
  felt and seen more widely.                       stakeholders value the most.
The impact of a design system   87
Part 1                                         88




Showing up regularly

 Most of the time, there is no direct
 ­pressure to show value. As long as the
  benefits are clear to the teams that are
 directly working with the system and
  higher management is convinced it’s
 worth investing in, it’s “good to go”
... for now.

It is good to keep explicitly stating the
expected gains: What are the goals we
want to achieve?

Whatever your goals, or preferred means
for measuring progress, it’s the regularity
of your reporting that makes the differ-
ence. It can be hard in the beginning, but
the only way to get better is to work at it.




   Tip


   You don’t need to have super
   specific ways to be able to
   keep tabs on progress

   • Check-in on your goals
     each month
   • List what progress you’ve
     seen, heard, felt, and
     counted
The impact of a design system                                     89




  Tip                                          Tip


  Translate your objectives                    A survey is a common way to
  into hypotheses early on. For                get feedback and measure the
  example:                                     health of the design system.

  • “Our design system will free               • Run a survey each quarter /
    up more time for innovation                  regularly.
    and creativity”                            • Keep tabs on your long- term
  • “Our design system                           objectives as well as short-
    will accelerate product                      term plans.
    development”                               • Don’t run on numbers alone;
                                                 leave in opportunities for open
                                                 feedback.
                                               • Share the good news as well as
                                                 the bad. It means you’re paying
                                                 attention and learning.




              “The stronger the metrics are connected
              to the actual needs that you’re trying
              to meet, the safer you are… Before
              and after comparisons can be pretty
              effective. If possible, calculate the cost of
              the current ways of working.”

                  – Christian Aminoff, Idean
Part 1   90
The impact of a design system                    91




                      Adobe
                      How Adobe is executing design
                      systems at scale in a highly complex
                      landscape




Sponsored by
Part 1                92




How Adobe is
executing design
systems at scale in
a highly complex
landscape
The
Adobe
    impact of a design system                                           93




                                Adobe is a company known for its creativity software
                                 products. It has a long history in the creative industry
                                 and one that has grown its product portfolio through
                                ­developing original creative tooling and through
                                 ­numerous acquisitions.

Industry                         Shawn Cheris, who heads the Brand & Experience team
Digital creative media           within Adobe Design, shared Spectrum’s story with us.
and marketing software           In the early days, the need for a system had been
                                ­apparent to the Design team for a long time. Shawn was
Employees                        the first one to champion the idea of a design system
21,000+                          and get buy-in throughout the company.

Headquarters                     Unlike many companies that have a broad product
San Jose, California            ­offering, Adobe’s products make up one big ecosystem,
                                 and so Adobe customers are often users of products
Design system                    across different ecosystems:
implementation:
Spectrum                        “Adobe’s broad offering should have experiential
                                 ­consistency, and you need that confidence from us
                                  when you buy our products. Quite often, our customers
                                  use multiple Adobe products. The design system has
                                  provided a lens that reminds everyone that while their
                                  product is important, the overall experience for Adobe
                                  users is everyone’s responsibility.”
Part 1                                                               94




The early days


A vision video played a critical role in      to help make both the designer’s and the
creating buy-in for the design system.        engineer’s job easier. We also provide a
This video showed a customer journey          contribution model that everybody can
spanning all of Adobe's different eco-        be a part of.”
systems, indicating what a consistent
experience would look and feel like. We       When the Photoshop team got on board
asked Shawn about the journey of getting      with the system, that was the tipping
buy-in for Spectrum:                          point. With almost three decades in the
                                              market, it’s a prime example of managing
“I gave a presentation around what it was     flagship products and staying relevant. As
 and why it was important probably a          Shawn put it, it was both a challenge and
 ­hundred times. I went to every product      a technical feat.
 and engineering manager that would
 give me their time, and I presented it to    In terms of adoption, the initial focus was
 them and helped them understand the          on two things: getting the new look and
 importance and benefits of what we           feel into all new products that were built
 wanted to ­accomplish.                       from scratch and partnering with teams
                                              creating centralized product frameworks.
The role of the design system is to provide
the structure and the underlying experi-
ential through-line that unites our prod-
ucts. We do that by providing resources
Adobe
The impact of a design system           95




 2013                           Today
Part 1                                                                96




Nurturing
Spectrum today

In the last year, Spectrum has reached a        back into the language in a way that is
point of maturity. Adoption and familiarity     responsible and that everyone else can
are growing more and more.                     consume. A lot of what we do comes
                                               down to managing all the input and
“It’s to the degree where you'll talk to       ­contributions.”
 product managers, and they'll say, "We're
 doing Spectrum" or "We've got Spectrum"       As anybody who has ever nurtured a
 or "We're Spectrum-ing." They won't           garden knows, most of it comes down to
 always 100% know what Spectrum is, but        establishing the right conditions:
 they know that they're supposed to use it.”
                                               “The right design language gives us a con-
Shawn uses a gardening metaphor to              sistent view of how we should present our
explain how the design team no longer           experiences to our customers. But it can’t
needs to make a case to Adobe product           cover every conceivable corner. And
teams about using a design system:              so you have to provide an ­opportunity
                                                for people to innovate and to add new
“We’re moving towards a new strategy            patterns. You also need to balance that
 where we’re operating more like garden-        and make sure that everybody’s reusing
 ers. Going forward, a lot of our efforts       the best of what already exists and not
 have grown around providing an opera-          inventing new and unnecessary stuff.”
 tional model that allows us to take in all
 the best thinking, all the best ideas from
 across the company. And as people are
 developing new products and new pro­
 duct experiences, we fold their learnings
The
Adobe
    impact of a design system                                         97




The role of designers
is evolving, so are
the tools
We also spoke with Cisco Guzman, who            mean that designers and developers are
is helping to guide the direction of Adobe      working harder than ever to keep up, stay
XD, about how design systems are shap-         connected, and forge new frontiers.
ing the tools of the trade.                     So the designers are asking themselves,
                                              “is there a better way of doing things?”
“Design is about solving tough problems        A design system promises that it will help
 while creating meaningful ­experiences         you to scale what you’re doing – to create
– and our methodology is remarkably            consistency and efficiency as much as
 simple: put the people you’re design-          you possibly can. This, in turn, means
 ing for in the middle, create a shared         that designers can focus more time on
 understanding of those problems, iterate       building better experiences for their
 quickly to imagine solutions, and move as     ­customers – and that’s ultimately what
 quickly as you can into implementation.        builds a business.
 XD is the collaboration platform to design
 and prototype engaging user exper­ien­
 ces – whether you’re one designer or an
 enterprise. XD helps designers and their
 entire organizations to build experiences
 together that matter.”

Design systems have become a hot
topic in the design and development
communities for a good reason. The
pressures of content velocity, continuous
collaboration, and emerging platforms
Part 1                                                               98




What makes
work ­engaging for
creatives?
 Creative people love solving problems.      “No designer is an island, and the creative
Adobe’s approach, methodology, and             process is not simply about our journey
 tools all point to one thing: creating       of understanding the customer. It’s really
­elegant solutions to tough problems          about how we bring an entire organi-
 while elevating the human experience.        zation along with us. We move fluidly
 Design systems provide everyone within        between different modalities – ­designing,
 a team or enterprise with the building        prototyping – and collaborating, at every
 blocks to create experiences consistently    step. That’s why collaboration is built
 and ­efficiently. That means that design-     into the core of XD rather than as an
 ers and developers can spend less time       ­afterthought.”
 on the mechanics of consistency and
 more time digging into understanding
 and addressing customer problems.

From Guzman’s point of view, the best
design systems are flexible and straight-
forward. They bring people together,
provide the building blocks, and then
encourage designers to solve problems
contextually using those building blocks.
It’s a language, not a canon. So the more
that innovation itself is a foundational
principle, the more likely that the system
is adopted and grows.
Adobe
The impact of a design system   99
Part 1                                                                   100




How do I create a
design system?

Adobe’s customers who have created                  changes to the design language, all cloud
design systems seem to agree on a few               documents that are subscribed to the
principles: keep it simple, and build it            source of truth receive updates. Other
to evolve. When asked about how XD                  designers can preview and accept these
brings simplicity into a naturally complex         – keeping everyone in sync.”
area:
                                                   At the heart of the design system is the
“One of the things we’ve heard from                component – the atomic element that
 customers who have experience building            allows for the creation of more complex
 design systems is that keeping it simple          units. The components in XD are flexible
  is essential. So simplicity is at the heart of   enough to support the nearly endless
  building a design system in XD. You can          contextual customization that users of
 start defining the colors, character styles,      the design system need to have to build
 and components that make up your                  with it.
 ­visual vocabulary in a cloud document
  using the assets panel.

 Once that’s done, you can share the
 source of truth with other design-
ers – ­enabling them to link their cloud
­documents to yours. As you make
Adobe
The impact of a design system                                      101




What about
the future?

Helping teams and enterprises create         or service or product that I’m designing
more design consistency and efficiency       bringing value to someone’s life? How
is an important first step in building a     am I keeping my customers’ needs in the
design system, but there are broader,        center of everything I’m doing?”
underlying problems that create related
challenges in other parts of the workflow.   “We have a great opportunity in front of
So Adobe will keep talking to ­customers      us to take what we've learned from
to learn more about the pain points           executing design systems at scale, and
they’re trying to solve with design sys-      with great complexity, and building some
tems and true to the XD way, finding and      of those lessons into our products and
addressing the underlying, root causes.       services moving forward.” - Shawn Cheris

The benefits of a design system align well
with what Guzman has in mind: “The real
power behind design systems is that it
will allow designers to focus on the more
central questions: how is this business
Part 2   102
Making it into a success                         103




                       Part 2




                       Making it into
                       a success
                       It’s become increasingly clear that a
                       design system needs to be co-created
                       with wide audiences
Part 2                                                          104



Building on a deep,
human understanding




                           “Put energy in creating something
                            more meaningful, more delightful,
                            rather than just getting sh** done.”

                               – Petri Heiskanen, SVP of Design, Idean




   “You’re creating a foundational,
   underlying system that should align and
   change people’s behavior for hundreds or
   thousands of people around the world. So
   yeah, there’s nothing easy about that. The
   key to this is involving the right people, in
   the right way, at the right time.”

         –Matias Vaara, Creative Director, Idean
Making it into a success                                    105




                      “We just looked at it as a user-
                       centered design problem, internally.
                       The positive impact on our teams,
                       on our products, and our end users.”

                           – Joseph McLaughlin, Partner,
                            Director of Design, Microsoft




               “It’s a wake-up call for many. More
                people have stepped up. There’s
                more awareness of what design can
                do: not just “hand me the button”
                but “how do we make it better?”

                    – J F Grossen, VP of Design, Global,
                     HERE Technologies
Part 2                                                             106




Design systems are
made for people
Investing in a design system means investing in communication and
engaging the whole organization into a broader collaboration.




A design system is an enabler
Introducing a design system requires taking the time to
build empathy with those whose lives it’s going touch. It’s
important to understand their day-to-day challenges,
processes, and workflows.

It also means communicating the design system’s aspira-
tion, intent, benefits, and value, not just to the business as a
whole, but to specific groups. It means helping others under-
stand - and experience first hand - how the system helps
them get their job done faster. It means nudging their focus
and energy to solve higher value problems.

It also means delivering the design system in a way that
engages, inspires, and makes it easier to act in the ways we
say we’d like to but not always end up doing.

In this aspect, a design system is like any other human-­
centric design initiative: it takes active collaboration.
Making it into a success                                             107




A design system should catch on                                Tip

The core team (or a more distributed team, if that’s the
                                                               What you value might
case) has a unique responsibility toward the system.
                                                               be different from
They are the ones that apply their craft to create the
                                                               everyone else’s
assets, tools, and guidelines that will bring the shared
vision to life, for the benefit of customers and other
end-users. They won’t achieve this feat on their own.          • Keep sitting
                                                                 down with all
For a business and its customers to enjoy the benefits           the immediate,
of an established design system, anyone who influences           potential users and
the outputs (a clue: not just the product organization)          stakeholders for a
needs to be capable and comfortable using the system,            chat or demo
be it through the tools and assets, or the shared activities   • Identify what
provided.                                                        particular benefit or
                                                                 output would make
                                                                 the design system
                                                                 relevant to them in
                                                                 particular
Part 2                                                             108




A design system requires structure                           Tip

Engaging others in a collaborative journey doesn’t
                                                             Walk a mile in their
mean indulging in design by committee. It is possible to
                                                             shoes, and invite
combine a strong creative vision and artistic direction by
                                                             others to walk in yours:
engaging with the community of design system users.
The main purpose here is to learn together, to create
                                                             • Stress test the
interest, to drive engagement, and to gain contributions.
                                                               system with a few
                                                               product teams in
This takes place in initial research, visual and pattern
                                                               the early proto­
exploration, curating and showcasing, as well as outlin-
                                                               typing phase
ing and distributing and executing final deliveries
                                                             • Embed design
for everyone’s benefit. Misunderstandings and minor
                                                               system creators in
conflicts along the way are guaranteed. After all, we’re
                                                               product teams and
only human. We are better off taking the time to learn
                                                               other units for a
from each other.
                                                               little while
                                                             • Invest in regular,
                                                               social, open door
                                                               activities
Making it into a success                                 109




“ If someone has a
  meeting with you
  to figure out how to
  get onboard with
  your design system,
  then you don't have
  a design system. You
  just have some assets
  that people need to be
  introduced to.”
    – Jeoff Wilks, Director, Carbon Design System, IBM
Part 2                                                            110



Building the mechanisms
that keep it alive




         “We’re pushing forward into a time where the
          screen is not going to be the only interaction
          point in UI for our products. And so, thinking
          about things like voice, like virtual or
          augmented reality. How are these going to
          affect our design systems?”

            – Jason Cyr, Director, Design Transformation, Cisco
Making it into a success                                         111




                           “Products are never done. We need
                            to have a team and support in place
                            to continue to iterate based on what
                            we learn from either our users and
                            their feedback, or the direction
                            that technology or the industry are
                            going.”

                              – Nick Cochran, Design Practices Lead,
                               ExxonMobil




             “A design system needs to be kept
              alive and evolving as much as
              possible. It’s not an end game.”

                  – Emanuela Damiani, Senior UX Product
                   Designer, Mozilla
Part 2                                                                  112




Becoming a
part of everyday
operations
A design system's success depends on its frequent
adoption by the dozens (or hundreds) of products a
company has on the market. It has this twofold nature
of being a product and serving other products.



The consequence of this is that a design        standing of what is shared, how much
system becomes successful to the extent         flexibility there is, what the limitations
it fits into the processes and operations       are, etc. is hard work, but part of the intan-
of the product teams, with their needs for      gible value a design system creates.
constant evolution and support. It needs
to have a quality and ability to scale that     The makers of a system are tasked with
requires much more rigorous workflow            approaching it with the knowledge that
than a style guide, and consistent collab-      will include history, versions, and in-built
oration with different teams. It requires       flexibility for the components and system-
governance and speed.                           atic elements. If not, the design system
                                                will turn from a shining initiative full of
A living, evolving product                      promise to a burden that lost touch with
A design system is a living part of the         the reality of the products it's meant to
organization. It's not finished after the       serve.
first version is created. Instead, it follows
the needs and evolutions of different pro­      In the early stages of a design system,
ducts - and most importantly, shifts in the     it's understandable that there are more
market and customer preferences.                changes to be made. It might be hard to
                                                define exact timelines. The more mature
That means your design system is going to       a design system becomes and the more
cater to a set of needs that require excep-     dependencies there are, the more demand
tions and versions. Building an under-          for stability there is.
Making it into a success                                      113




Adjusting responsibilities                     Tip
and creating new
touchpoints for internal                       Introducing a design system
collaboration                                  means adding new workflows.
                                               The design system should be
                                               an enabler, so it’s essential to
When first building a design system,
                                               understand its impact:
it’s necessary to start having the styles
and components embedded to the live
products. This way, product teams can          • Do some research on
trust the quality and implement the              what’s holding individuals
assets quickly in their day-to-day work.         and teams back in their
Full backlogs and previous prioritizations       day-to-day work
will then need to be re-negotiated.            • Map out what individuals
                                                 and teams need more
Reducing the friction and awkwardness            time on
for teams and products that are already        • Keep going over the
running at full speed is essential. It           desired behavior changes,
requires time and effort, as it’s not only       helping individuals and
the implementation of the product but            teams start forming new
also workflows and decision-making               practices
practices that need to evolve.

Instead of teams spending time on basic
assets, these discussions become part of
the design system community. For some
teams and individuals, this can be a relief.
For others, it’s a big leap to take.

Even for teams who are keen to adopt
the system, figuring out how to do it in
practice can be a challenge. At times,
management will need to provide support
to keep the roll-out going.
Part 2                                                          114




Aren’t we already working like this?
Sharing code or design assets like this
is nothing new. What’s new is the scope,
making it cross-disciplinary, and the ways
to govern it.




                                             A centralized resource




         Product teams




                                       Products and services
Making it into a success                                    115




“ We would keep
  every historical
  version of the system
  available until all of
  our digital products
  have migrated to an
  updated version”
    – Josh Baron, Senior Principal Product Designer, Dell
Part 2                                                      116




Understanding the way                          Tip
designers and developers
do - or should - work                          A design system team can’t
together                                       ignore how a centralized
                                               change might affect the
                                               product teams:
The best way to reduce the team’s work-
load and keep the rhythm and pace across
various products is to have the system         • Spend enough time
cover both development and design.               understanding the product
                                                 ecosystem and priorities
It’s not a design system without proper        • A strong partnership and
mechanisms in place to keep design and           continuous communication
development in sync, offering new ways           on the “candidate changes”
to collaborate and specialize.                   need to happen before they
                                                 are put in place
The most immediate benefit of having live      • Aim for a predictable,
assets is the ability to demonstrate behav-      regular release intervals
iors - not just to describe them or simulate   • Create a definition for
them. This directly cuts down the time           what’s a breaking change,
required for creating detailed specs.            and how often it can
It allows the emphasis in handovers to           happen
shift to the desired objectives. It also
allows for more rapid prototyping, with
designers and developers working in
parallel rather than within their own,
separate environments.

The design system team can then create
a series of quality assurance and control
procedures to maintain the scalability of
the system.
Making it into a success                                      117




It’s not just the assets                        Tip
but the way they are
implemented                                     A design system won’t provide
                                                all the answers. Finding
With basic components and styles imple-         boundaries is essential to set
mented more consistently and without            the right expectations:
the need for custom tweaks, it becomes
easier for the teams to always pull in the
                                                • Find a clear answer to
latest assets. As a result, rolling out UI
                                                  what the system needs to
updates across various instances becomes
                                                  deliver - and what remains
significantly faster. Not only does this
                                                  a responsibility
mean that products start to feel more
                                                • Often, a design operations
aligned, but it helps to reduce the gap that
                                                  specialist, a service
often exists between “product reality” and
                                                  designer, or a business
the desired state. At least, this is the case
                                                  analyst is required to evolve
when the implementation and workflows
                                                  the processes
have been developed with this ­particular
                                                • Close collaboration with
model in mind. It’s great to set ambitious
                                                  a tech lead, or architect,
goals, but it would be naive to expect
                                                  can both define the needs
changes to take place overnight.
                                                  of current production
                                                  and pave the way for its
For some design systems, a strong union
                                                  evolution
of products and centralized resources
might not even be the right goal. In these
cases, the emphasis is put on doubling the
efforts on the shared principles and over-
arching philosophy. Potential duplication
of work across teams is seen as less of
a concern. In shared sessions, highly
auton­omous teams come together to share
inspiration and success stories. Again, the
decision between these two models (and
every variation in-between and besides
them) is best made intentionally, making
it possible to steer the system in the right
direction.
Part 2                                                                 118




Taking product
portfolio management
into account
It’s easy to assume that a design system should apply 100% to
everything an organization produces. After all, this would provide
maximum uniformity and efficiency. In practice, this often proves
impossible. It also begs the questions of what exactly “being aligned
with the system” means. It’s essential to understand both the current
and future offerings. By helping to invest more time into the system
wisely, it will provide an invaluable toolkit for roll-out and adoption-
related negotiations.



Making it relevant                             are taken into account. The design system
for broader audiences                          is unlikely to be the only changed initia-
As a rule of thumb, the overarching philos-    tive around, and there will be units and
ophy and principles apply to everything.       teams who are heavily invested in their
So does the possibility to share relevant      current approach and implementation.
insights. Each existing unit, product, and
individual within an organization is likely    Finding “north star” statements (as well as
to have a various set of definitions of what   great examples of their expression in prac-
truly matters going forward. Mapping           tice) gives the design system a purpose. It
these out will bring the differences and       also makes it more likely that the design
the commonalities to light. These are the      system is going to survive as soon as the
critical priorities, key messages and mind­    sparring on the tangible, hands-on tools
sets that resonate across the organization.    and assets begins. The better the reasons
                                               for making changes, the more efforts
The underlying foundations are also            can be put into it. The better the design
aligned not only with the particular units     system matches the needs of a team or
most heavily using the system but to a         unit going forward, the easier it is to adopt.
broader context and dependencies that
Making it into a success                                                 119




Finding the right approach for each              In short, it’s likely that there will always
The more widely used and the more                be several items on the fringe of a design
future-proof something is, the sooner            system’s scope. Without a good under-
it needs to be considered by the design          standing of the offering and its drivers for
system. In particular, this applies to           the next years, it’s harder to know what to
the UI foundations, service patterns,            push for, and what to say no to.
supported frameworks and platforms,
tools, specific UI assets, and variants, or      Understanding
any other outputs that are tied to a partic-     where the world is going
ular medium. This way, what is provided          Unfortunately, it’s rare to find offering-­
by the system fits the needs for most, if        related insights compiled in a way that
not all, teams leveraging the system in          is immediately applicable to make the
their daily work. In practice, there will be     design system work. It’s much more likely
a good deal more considerations at play          that a good deal of collecting, research,
other than current adoption and expected         and co-creation are required throughout
lifecycle, including the definition of “suffi-   a design system initiative, both to gain a
cient alignment.” For example, in the early      sense of where the relevant sources are, as
stages of a design system, running a pilot       well as to make the key takeaways for the
with early adopters and champions, wher-         design system visible.
ever those might be found, can bridge the
way to the business critical cases. With         In some cases, it’s hard to gain support for
adoption well underway, demands for              this kind of preparatory work or to find
the design system might grow faster than         sufficient bandwidth once the system
the rate at which high quality, validated        initiative is already going on. Even then,
assets can fit well together and have a          such discussions tend to bring to light an
clear purpose to be reasonably produced.         assumed scope and priorities: Who is the
Over time, there will be a need to depre-        system intended for? Who - and to what
ciate and kill some aspects that were            extent - will depend on it?
supported before.
                                                 Some of the answers can easily be
Thrown into all of this is the selected          explored and tested out. However, the
governance approach, i.e., a highly              bigger the initiative is aiming to be,
distributed vs. centralized, and cura-           the more it depends on making smart,
tion for various aspects of the system, i.e.,    sustainable choices.
strict vs. loose rules, and the complexity
of the system architecture, i.e., managed
as one vs. managed as multiple tiers and
sub-extensions.
Part 2                                                   120




  Tip                               Tip


  Make the scope of the design      Keep tabs on how the
  system both clear and up for      product/service offering is
  debate.                           evolving. In particular, look out
                                    for the underlying drivers:

  • It helps to have a strong,
    grounded vision of              • Start researching from day
    priorities                        1; invest in a more in-depth,
  • Even if the design                360° mapping early on if
    system does not support           you can
    something in terms of           • Find ways to map your data
    assets, it’s good to keep         and hunches; this makes
    raising awareness of the          it easier to iterate on the
    thinking behind a system          potential conclusions for
  • Not everything needs to be        the design system
    aligned the same way (but       • Be considerate of the
    make the differences and          granularity level you are
    their implications clear)         going for, i.e. “mountain-
  • It’s natural for the scope to     top” vs. “bird’s-eye view”
    evolve over time                • Pick a suitable interval at
                                      which you are going to
                                      review these key steering
                                      materials, discuss whether
                                      you’re still on track
                                    • Use the maps in your
  Tip
                                      communication, both to
                                      raise awareness, and to
  Make sure there are 1-2             invite others to share their
  people involved in the design       insights
  system initiative who can run
  these types of discussions
  and research
Making it into a success                                         121



Ensuring that assets
can be implemented
into live products
                                              “A design system is a marriage of
                                               design and development.”

                                                 – Josh Baron, Senior Principal Product
                                                  Designer, Dell




       “Using code to help control
        implementation has been
        really important.”

             – David Kendall, Principal, UX
              Design, AT&T




                                  “Introducing a design system could be
                                   introducing change for a lot of people.
                                   Not only for the design organization,
                                   but the engineering organization, and
                                   potentially the product management
                                   organization.”

                                       – Jeoff Wilks, Director,
                                        Carbon Design System, IBM
Part 2                                          122




         Collecting a 360°
         inventory over time

         Mountain-top view

         • How many brands are there? What’s their relationship
           with each other?

         • What focus areas and targets does the latest strategy
           set? What are the critical categories?

         • How is the market changing?

         • What’s growing, what’s dying?

         • Which future technologies are already being investigat-
           ed for potential adoption?

         • What capabilities are being invested in? Are there any
           major organizational changes coming up?



         Bird’s-eye view

         • What makes or breaks the experience for customers?
           What do they value?

         • What makes the brand recognizable? What are some of
           the best instances where this has been expressed?

         • Which services and products tend to go together? What
           purposes do these serve?

         • What are the recurring service patterns across different
           instances/touchpoints? What’s the underlying architec-
           ture like?

         • Which development framework /design tools are used?
           What would be the best ways to host assets and code for
           teams to be able to access and utilize them efficiently?
Making it into a success                                            123



Badger’s-eye view

• What are the key, shared, defining details, and character-
  istics? What variants/flavors of these exist?

• What are the critical conversion points? Where’s the
  most traffic?

• What are the recurring journey stages / use cases / jobs-
  to-be-done / user needs?

• Which assets and styles are used most often? Which are
  most asked for?

• How many teams/units are there? What are their objec-
  tives and painpoints?




Mapping where the desired level of
“alignment” to a design system lands:




Soulmates               Friends                Distant cousins      Different planets

A change in one is      It’s easy for a team   It matches (some     It has little in
immediately/soon        to implement           of) the shared       common in
visible in the other.   updates in the         principles, and it   terms of shared
                        format provided by     might even appear    principles and
                        the system             the same at first    implementation
                                               glance, but it’s a
                                               replica maintained
                                               by the team on
                                               their own
Part 2                                                          124



Steering the roll-out of
a design system



                                 “Part of the lead work is to
                                  figure out how product teams
                                  can adopt this without losing
                                  track of their ongoing work.”

                                      – Elisa Pyrhönen,
                                       Senior Service Designer, Idean




 “Right now, we have components which
  are robustly designed and developed
  only for the web part. Our next step is to
  also have the native mobile components
  for iOS and Android.”

         – Marie Petit, Leader of the UX Chapter,
          Crédit Agricole Technologies & Services
Making it into a success                                        125




                           “When an identity hasn’t been
                            thought of from a system
                            perspective in a good digital way,
                            we’ve had to rethink the identity
                            without breaking it.”

                              – Jules Mahé, Lead UI Designer, Idean




               “We have created a white label
                master design system at the bottom.
                Then on top of it, each product
                family could have an extensive
                library.”

                    – Robin Klein Schiphorst,
                     Senior UX Designer, Idean
Part 2                                                   126



Keeping it
relevant over time




         “How will we maintain the system after it’s
          built? How will we prepare our community
          when the system changes? If teams don’t ask
          those long term questions before they start
          building, the system will only have one life
          cycle before it becomes outdated.”

            – Hayley Hughes, Design Lead, Airbnb
Making it into a success                                             127




                           “It’s a cross-functional effort.
                            Because a design system belongs
                            to everyone in the organization,
                            everyone will be able to improve it —
                            if needed.”

                              – Emanuela Damiani,
                               Senior UX Product Designer, Mozilla




               “The critical piece here is -
                what’s the governance: what is the
                methodology for product managers,
                or product teams, or product team
                designers to evolve the system
                further?”

                    – Sampo Jalasto, Head of Design, Idean
Part 2                                                              128




Learning to
handle incoming
contributions
There are two brutal ends in store for design systems that
fail to evolve: they are never adopted widely enough, or
they go stale over time. To prevent this from happening,
there are many decisions to make about the nature of the
design system.




There’s a new
process in town

Introducing a design system means that       It might be a core team or an extended
some decisions that were previously          collective that is governing the design
handled by the teams on their own will       system. In either case, the current checks
now be taken care of centrally.              and balances tend to evolve.

Some individuals and teams will be over-     What this decision influences, however,
joyed. Others might be less so. In either    are the ideal means for handling incom-
case, it will take some time and repeti-     ing contributions.
tions to get in place and to get it right.
Making it into a success                                       129




How and when do we…?                             Tip

If the process is not fair, or transparent
                                                 • Should you have a core
enough, why should people trust it? After
                                                   team or extended collective
all, they are experts in their own right. If
                                                   nurturing the design
it doesn’t feel fast enough, who is account-
                                                   system? We believe that in
able for it? After all, people have their
                                                   most cases, it's best to have
deliverables to think of. If another unit
                                                   the best of both worlds
owns it and we have no say about it? All of
                                                 • To make it easier for the
these question present potential pitfalls.
                                                   teams, build at least partly
                                                   on the existing tools and
The process model you have in
                                                   workflows that people tend
mind for contributions is only as good as it
                                                   to be familiar with
runs in reality. This means being able to:
                                                 • Whenever you state a strict
• Efficiently communicate (and in a way,
                                                   rule, whether it's in the
  agree on) when and how individuals,
                                                   documentation or during a
  teams, and other units can and should
                                                   session, follow it up with a
  become involved
                                                   justification. This helps to
• Have a feasible way of handling all of this
                                                   keep it transparent: often
  in a way that works for all involved
                                                   the underlying reasons are
• Make sure that the design system evolves
                                                   just as relevant to be
  based on contributions, but also provides
                                                   aware of
  sufficient stability for the units and teams
  it serves


To set expectations, it would also help to
set some clear decisions on:
• What platforms, products, channels, etc.
  does the design system (currently) need
  to support?
• What’s the steering group that can both
  follow up on the progress of the design
  system, as well as provide support in
  issues that need to be escalated?
Part 2                                                             130




Why do we…?                                          Tip

Thinking of the design system as a sign-
                                                     How many pleasant and
off procedure doesn’t properly capture its
                                                     helpful things do you think
potential. A design system is there to help
                                                     of when you hear the word
uncover and root down the best practices,
                                                     “process”? Unless your ears
ranging from overarching principles prac-
                                                     just perked up and shoulders
ticed each day, to helping specialists come
                                                     went down, you might have
up with answers to very detailed, specific
                                                     memories of the worst
questions. Often, there are no single, right,
                                                     bureaucracies. Let’s try to
or wrong interpretations, but a range of
                                                     steer away from that right
options available.
                                                     away:

In some ways, having fewer questions is
                                                     • “What if contributing to the
not the objective. Having a proper forum
                                                       system was like going your
for all the possible interpretations is better
                                                       favorite coffee shop?"
and being able to state the latest official,
updated versions.

The more people we want to include, the
broader the perspectives, backgrounds,
and narratives.

And the harder this becomes, the more
unique a platform design system can be.



  Tip


  Before diving into detailed process practices, take a step
  back, bring people together, and ask:

  • When do we need strict rules?
  • When do we need loose rules?
  • As a whole, where do we land on this continuum, which of
    these should characterize our design system?
Making it into a success                                               131




What’s the setting?

A place for peer support                        • If you are not seeing any contributions
No need to keep it formal all the time.           coming in through your formal process(es),
Many of the questions and early stage             some tweaks and changes are needed
ideas are best handled in a more casual         • If you’re recognizing too many contri-
setting:                                          butions coming in at once, it’s a definite
                                                  problem, but still, one you need to address
• Pick a channel for quick questions and          and openly communicate about
  casual conversations related to the design
  system
• Organize face-to-face sessions, open door
  days, training sessions, casual meetups,
  etc. to bring individuals from different
  units and teams together
• When sparring with an individual or
  specific team, discuss what the purpose of
  the session is (e.g., mutual learning vs. a
  formal review)


The formal process
Having a proper structure for incoming
requests takes a lot of the stress and hassle
away, especially when times are busy:

• Automate what you can to make it easier
  to keep track of both the individual
  requests, as well as the overarching trends
• You want to benefit from a wide range of
  inputs, not just the loudest voices
Part 2                                          132




What’s the difference   Loose rules

between loose and       • Emphasis on recommendations

strict rules?           • Documentation can be more limited and
                          open ended

                        • Updates to the shared assets can be
                          more organic

                        • Teams have more freedom and
                          autonomy to explore what goes into (and
                          out of) the system




What are the risks to   Loose rules
watch out for?          • Uncertainty; feeling that the design
                          system and its assets do not provide
                          sufficient answers

                        • Confusing creative freedom with a
                          permission to be sloppy and ­inconsistent

                        • The teams preferring to keep producing
                          custom tweaks to even the basic assets,
                          keeping up the design and development
                          debts

                        • Dropping the design system as “nobody
                          uses it anyways”
Making it into a success                                          133




Strict rules
• Emphasis on requirements

• Documentation tends to be more precise and exhaustive

• Updates to the shared assets need to go through a strict
  review and distribution processes

• Various mechanisms are in place to ensure compliance and
  trust in the decisions made within the system




Strict rules
• Fear and censorship; feeling that experimentation is frowned
  upon and suggestions are likely to be shot down

• Preserve ineffective or outdated patterns as well as the good
  ones

• The teams’ focus slipping to reviews and checks rather
  than the customer and business needs (especially when the
  design system checks are not the only ones around)

• Dropping the design system as it becomes too limiting
Part 2                                           134




Which one should       Loose rules

we go for?             • There’s an underlying need to evolve
                         the offering; the target audiences, con-
                         texts of use, business rules are changing
                         significantly

                       • UI assets that have not (yet) been made
                         part of the system can be created (prefer-
                         ably keeping the shared principles and UI
                         foundations in mind)




How important is it?   On a higher level
                       To establish the boundaries of


                       • The underlying principles should be in
                         constant use but revised rarely, e.g., once
                         each year (unless there’s a significant shift
                         in markets/customers/ brand

                       • The underlying UI foundations should be
                         as future-proof as possible while support-
                         ing existing, major platforms/products
                         that have a life expectancy of n years

                       • The UI assets evolve as new insights are
                         gained or as the defining principles/foun-
                         dations are changed
Making it into a success                                            135




Strict rules
• There’s an underlying need to stabilize the offering; the
  various target audiences, contexts of use, business rules, etc.
  have become fairly established

• Core brand assets tend to always follow strict rules.
  Principles and UI foundations tend to ensure that assets go
  well together, meaning that these definitions tend to benefit
  from being more robust.




On a tactical level
When in doubt, use these two questions to determine
whether it should become, or stay a part of the system


• Would it be of high functional/emotional value to end-users?

• Would it be used by multiple/all teams?
Part 2                                                      136



Expert tips on scaling
the design system




                         “Have a shared vision and do not
                          hesitate to change things if you see
                          that you are not on the right path.”

                             – Audrey Hacq, Design Lead, Idean




     “I wish that we had set up some more
      usability tests or feedback sessions
      along the way that got into the details
      of the implementation. Not just the
      philosophy and the concepts, but the
      implementation choices made for code
      and UX design.”

         – Nick Cochran, Design Practices Lead,
          ExxonMobil
Making it into a success                                         137




                            “It’s imperative to keep the
                             momentum going, to keep
                             people engaged, keep people
                             excited.”

                                – J F Grossen, VP of Design, Global,
                                 HERE Technologies




              “We hosted these two-day design jams.
               And they were a great success for several
               reasons like for culture, for sharing,
               collaboration. But more importantly, it
               allowed all of our creative teams to stress
               test the new design system.”

                   – David Kendall, Principal, UX Design, AT&T
Part 2                                                               138




Scaling with
pilots, building in
feedback loops
A design system is like any other product: Building it in
isolation reduces the likelihoods of success.




Why is it essential to                         Why is it essential to involve
involve internal users?                        end-users and customers?
The best way to lower the threshold for        A design system serves to make internal
adoption is to ensure that internal users,     processes smoother and more effective,
(“makers” leveraging the system) are part      but the real end user is the customer -
of the development process.Ultimately,         people who will be interacting with the
it’s about their everyday work. And to take    company’s brand and products.
action, it’s good to know why something        It’s likely that a good deal of a design
is done the way it is - otherwise, it seems    system initiative’s efforts goes towards
to lack purpose and direction. Being part      making it the best for internal teams
of it earlier on also makes it all easier to   working on brand, development, and
absorb. There are fewer unknowns. As           design. However, per the definition of
for the design system curators, engag-         brand perception, user experience, and
ing with the various makers helps gain         customer experience, they can never be
an understanding for what will work and        forced - they can only be facilitated.
what will not: what is feasible with current   Therefore, it’s essential for a design
processes, which parts should be open          system - both the curators and the makers
to change, and which should remain as          - to stay focused on the “external”
they are. It’s also an opportunity to raise    insights.
awareness, and to spot where potential
misunder­standings are stemming from.
Making it into a success   139
Part 2                                              140




         The 3-3-3 test

         Running this exercise will provide you with a prioritized
         shortlist of up to 9 screens and 27 components to test
         your design system with.



         Goal

         Provide a view of what future products and services
         will look and feel like. Validate your principles and
         shared assets.



         Steps

         1. Do a mapping of your whole company's products and
            components as part of the inventory.

         2. Identify three critical products or product families if you
            have a large organization.

         3. From each of these three products or product families,
            you choose three key, critical screens.

         4. Select three critical components from these selected
            screens.

         5. You now have a prioritized shortlist of screens and
            components to start your test with.

         6. Make two versions: a safe one and a bold one. The
            safe version aims for steady improvements. The bolder
            version can go a little bit overboard, showcasing what an
            ideal, super solution might look and feel like.
Making it into a success                                       141




  Tip                                     Tip


  Focus on what matters:                  Why not make it a joint effort?

   • Focus on the signature               • Run interviews and
     moments that make or                   workshops to get to a
     break the experience for               deeper understanding of the
     end-users. These are the               portfolio and business logic
     instances when love (or              • Invite representatives of the
     hate) sparks for the product           teams responsible for the
     or brand. These may or may             products and services for a
     not be the same across                 day, or even just half a day, to
     different products and                 be part of the explorations
     services
   • Focus on a holistic UI,
     even if it’s a snapshot: the
     interactions, the motion,
     the semantic structure,
     the responsiveness, etc.
     Otherwise, it can too easily
     be seen as “just a bit prettier
     than before”




Follow up with one of these activities:

• Review what you learned about these
  “must win” cases.

• Share the result of the explorations.
Part 2                                                          142



Communicating it well,
time and time again




         “As a part of the Fluent Design System, we’ve
          set up a Fluent learning series, where we’re
          bringing people in to learn about different tools,
          different processes, different design areas, like
          accessibility. It’s a learning series. It’s broad,
          and there are design talks, there are tooling
          talks, there’s a lot of different ways to engage
          via online or in person and we’re looking at
          what people are responding to there. That’s
          helping us understand what’s of value and how
          to prioritize the things that are seeming of value,
          as well.”

            – Joseph McLaughlin, Partner, Director of Design,
             Microsoft
Making it into a success                                      143




      “The more you talk about it,
       the easier it becomes. Involve
       the right and even the wrong
       people.”

           – Karolina Boremalm,
            Managing UX Designer, Idean




                               “Having heard somebody else say
                                something about it and having
                                experienced it first hand, those are
                                two completely different things.”

                                   – Elisa Pyrhönen,
                                    Senior Service Designer, Idean




            “Make sure everyone is in the
             loop and understands what has
             been done, clarify the choices
             you’ve made, as well as why
             you’ve made those decisions.”

                 – Audrey Hacq, Design Lead, Idean
Part 2                                                                  144




Communication
is a deal-breaker
Whether it’s the nature of larger companies in particular, or the wide-
reaching nature of design systems (both, we suspect), through our
industry reviews, we've found that communication was repeatedly
mentioned as a critical activity.



A design system's channels ranges from           tage over their competitors. However, they
documentation to in-person activities.           are also the ones most prone to abandon
The quality of these determines whether          the design system once “the next big
people are both able and willing to apply        thing” catches their eye. Without a proper
shared guidance in their day-to-day deci-        model to scale various, early-stage exper-
sion making.                                     iments to more established initiatives,
                                                 the resources required to keep the design
There is a clear overlap here to the way the     system up and running will eventually
design system is delivered, and the way          run out.
contributions are taken in. In this chap-
ter, however, we’ll be focusing on aware-        Companies that are more hierarchical
ness raising in particular, as the need for it   in their structures can be more difficult
never completely shifts away.                    to convince about the pros of a design
                                                 system. The inevitable ambiguity during
Understanding the                                the early learning stages and first pilots
existing culture and practices                   can feel unusual, even uncomfortable.
The tactics for effective communication          Approaching other units and decision
vary depending on company’s size, struc-         makers requires a more formal approach.
ture, culture, and design maturity level.        And so implementing a design system in
Some companies quickly accept, adapt,            companies like these often mean secu­
and incorporate a design system into their       ring initial buy-in from top management
work processes. They have an entrepre-           for funds and resources, at the same time
neurial mindset and are often interested         as winning over and empowering teams
in trying new methods to gain an advan-          on lower levels to promote the required
                                                 changes to implement a design system.
Making it into a success   145
Part 2                                                                146




Finding the right                             As the design system evolves, the need for
communication practices                       information about how to govern it, use
Finding the right communication prac-         it, and expand it, is just as strong as the
tices is part of the design system creation   initial phase. The difference is that there's
process. In the early stages, the focus of    an even greater variety of audiences, both
communication is on raising awareness         in terms of interests and awareness levels.
and creating chances to get an official       And so with this evolution, more teams
blessing or an initial investment.            are dependent on the updates.
As the design system development starts
to roll out, many of the needed commu-        To meet the needs of the growing audi-
nication patterns are realized and estab-     ences and channels, the means of
lished. While working with early adopters     communication need to be clear and well
and a wider test audience, you come           functioning.
across questions like:
                                              For the core team, this means finding
• What is it for?                             ways to standardize at least some of their
• How should it be used?                      communication practices, whether it’s in
• What works for us, and what doesn’t?        the form of training sessions, workshops,
                                              meetups, reviews, shared selection crite-
                                              ria, an online learning resource, release
                                              notes, or something else entirely.
Making it into a success                                           147




  Tip                                          Tip


  Find the right channels and                  Find your elevator pitch:
  sessions to continue raising
  awareness:                                   • Find a short, memorable
                                                 way to introduce the design
  • Make the most of existing                    system
    communication channels                     • Follow up the intro with a
    and meetups                                  question, e.g., “How does
  • Introduce regular activities                 that sound to you?”
    that the core team or                      • This helps shift it from
    system champions can run                     a one-sided pitch to a
  • Allocate enough time for                     discussion and mutual
    the team to create and                       learning opportunity
    maintain communication
    and documentation
    materials
  • Enable other sources of
    information, e.g., leads, key
    units, who can tell the story
    and promote the system
    as well




  Tip


  Work across company layers for a stronger, cross-organizational understanding:

  • Top-level executives need to be convinced of the value and objectives of the
    design system, but they are rarely aware of (or extensively interested in) the
    difficulties in practicalities that their subordinates are facing
  • The makers who will adopt the system have their day-to-day jobs to think
    about. Running onboarding sessions and participatory workshops help build
    good working knowledge on the new practices over time
Part 2                                                148




  Tip                               Tip


  Build a human connection.         Set up a steering committee
  It’s not just more helpful, but   to ensure the continued
  often the most effective way      management and
  to communicate:                   sponsorship for the design
                                    system initiative:
  • If you can’t meet in person,
    make a video call to build      • Provide both qualitative
    the human connection              and quantitative updates on
  • If it’s a really big team,        the progress and impact of
    communication might be            the design system
    harder. In this case, run it    • A design system isn’t a
    with the leads and enable         standard product: it can
    them to pass it on in person      take management some
    to the rest of their teams        time to learn how to best
                                      support and provide
                                      steering input for it



  Tip


  Communication isn’t a
  one-way street. It’s essential
  that other questions,
  comments, and concerns are
  heard:

  • Listen and look for who
    might be interested and
    who is too quiet
  • Sometimes, instead of
    answering a question,
    it’s good to respond with
    “What do you think? I’d like
Making it into a success                149




“ We had the chance to
  have enough time (almost
  two months) to carry out
  a real framing phase, to
  research and prioritize. This
  crucial step also allowed
  us to convince the internal
  management to unlock the
  budgets, and to co-create
  with the stakeholders the
  end-game vision of the
  design system.”
    – Audrey Hacq, Design Lead, Idean
Part 2                                                            150




Types of communication and
activities that keep it flowing



   Who                                      Why

   Makers - internal employees, vendors,    • Gaining a good working know­
   partners, customers’ teams, etc. those     ledge on the design system and its
   leveraging the system                      objectives.
                                            • The feedback given and questions
                                              raised help see what works and
                                              what doesn’t


   Stakeholders - management, key           • Awareness that it exists, and why
   units, partners, etc.                      it exists
                                            • Providing support for the initiative
                                              as needed
                                            • Actively inviting other companies
                                              to build on the same platform




   Broader public                           • Public relations for potential
                                              employees



   End-users (customers, employees)         • Understanding the gap between
                                              internal definitions and end-users
                                              reality
Making it into a success                                         151




  Where                                    How

  • An easy-to-access, online learning     •   Do’s and don'ts
    resource (the design system site)      •   Frequently asked questions
  • Blog and social media                  •   Hands-on exercises
  • Bootcamp                               •   Key definitions and mantras
  • Demo sessions                          •   Latest updates and release notes
  • Discipline / unit specific meetups     •   Live previews
  • Facilitated workshops                  •   Panel discussions
  • Internal communication channels        •   Practical, illustrative examples
  • Monthly newsletter                     •   Short video(s)
  • Regular, system specific meetups       •   Success stories
  • Team’s own reviews and sign-offs       •   Talks
  • Steering meetings                      •   Templates
  • The tools used to deliver / leverage
    the system and its assets
  • Webinars
  • Industry awards


  • Conferences and industry specific
    meetups
  • Hiring funnel


  • Regular user tests, observation,       •   Key takeaways
    interviews, field visits               •   Statistics
  • Analytics reviews, A/B and multi-      •   Video summaries
    variate tests, surveys, minipolls      •   Quotes
  • Reports and review sessions
Part 2                                            152




         Rethinking what
         “communication”
         means
         Let’s face it, training and communication can sound
         a bit boring.



         Goal

         Raising a design system’s awareness with engaging activi-
         ties can be effective.



         Steps

         1. Gather a group of people together.

         2. Go through the following questions as a warm-up, one
            by one:

         3. What did it feel like when you first learned to swim, to
            ride a bike? What did it feel like when you had an “aha”
            moment?

         4. How would you teach that skill or idea to somebody else
            most effectively?

         5. How would you prefer to learn more about it?

         6. If you were handed a package to do that, what would
            convince you that it really works for you?

         7. After sharing your experiences, shift towards considering
            how these might best be applied when it comes to the
            design system.
Making it into a success                                        153




  Tip
                                         Follow up with one of these activities:
   • You can use a paper canvas if
                                         • Turn your learnings into to-dos to get it
     you’d like. Find a suitable room
                                           implemented.
     and place each warm-up
     question on a stretch of wall       • When running your communication ac-
   • Getting people up and moving          tivities, keep actively inviting feedback
     not only provides a break             on what works and what doesn’t.
     from sitting at a desk, it subtly
     changes the dynamics of
     discussion and ideation




        a


        b


        c



        d
Part 2                                                      154




                   Nick Cochran,
                   ExxonMobil
                   on the
                   importance of
Nick Cochran,
Design Practices
Lead, ExxonMobil


                   communication
                   “I would recommend making
                    communication and collaboration a
                    full-time role for someone as you are
                    developing and rolling out a design
                    system. That was my main role during the
                    project. I wasn’t putting my hands on code
                    or pushing pixels. I was reviewing some
                    of the work that was done and helping to
                    provide direction. My role was also being
                    the interface to the organization, the
                    champion to share and communicate.
                    That is a crucial role in any successful
                    design system implementation.

                   My job was to help address concerns
                   and to make sure the organization felt
Making it into a success                                             155




heard and that they had the avenue             layouts instead of rigid grids. Some of
to collaborate. Not everybody wants            those choices were new to people, and I
to, but for the ones who did, we wanted        wish we had the chance to engage in those
to make it very clear that they could          discussions and hear feedback from our
play an active role in the project. It is so   designers and developers sooner.”
essential for any design system project to
commit serious time and resources to this
communication and collaboration aspects
of the effort.

One thing that we did was not rely
enough on our one big round of upfront
interviews with our users of the design
system. We did our research at the
beginning when we kicked the project
off. It was great—we were able to hear
from a lot of these designers, developers,
and other stakeholders at the start of
the project through these typical user
research interviews. That helped us shape
the direction from the start. Based on
these learnings, we were able to set the
principles for the system. It also helped
people from the beginning to feel heard
and connected to the work.

Though we didn’t stop communicating
with these people after that, what we
didn’t do, and I wish we had done, was to
bring some of these same people back in
to do what would amount to a usability
test or something that was like testing
a prototype of the design system. Our
project team had been making choices
as we created the design system, the
component library, and the designs that
backed it up. Implementation choices
were being made like using flexible
Part 2                                                         156




It’s a custom
solution that fits
your organization
Many of the more widely-known design systems are open
to the public. Or to be a bit more specific, the design sys-
tem sites, blogs, and conference talks on these systems
are easy to find.

This makes it possible to explore alternatives, bench-
marking how others have solved specific aspects of their
system. But no matter how good their design system is, it
will not fully fit the needs of your company. Each design
system is unique.
Making it into a success                                      157




Culture fit
                                               Tip
Each organization has its unique flavor.
Understanding this differentiating iden-       Benchmarking existing, public
tity before starting on the design system      design system resources is an
specifics helps guide the decisions in the     excellent way to gain a sense
right direction.                               of different, potential ways
                                               to present a design system.
                                               Here are some of the design
It’s alright to have different teams and
                                               systems our interviewees have
units with their own, specific flavor. It
                                               been working on to get you
can even be a sign of active communi-
                                               started:
ties within an organization. However, for
the design system to be something all
                                               • Airbnb Design Language
these different teams can subscribe to, it’s
                                                 System
good to find an overarching “truth.” The
                                               • Dell Clarity
answer to this might reside in the heritage
                                               • IBM Design Language
of the organization, a drive for a future
                                               • Microsoft Fluent
vision, or something else entirely.
                                               • Adobe Spectrum


Process fit
It doesn’t make sense to upset the whole
set-up. For example, if people are used to     Tip
discussing through a particular channel
or in an existing meetup, why not keep it      When benchmarking public
that way. On the other hand, if a signifi-     design system resources,
cant share of people find a specific step      keep in mind that it’s harder to
or internal touchpoint to be a bottleneck,     gain a view of all the internal
why not suggest a better alternative.          activities and decisions keep-
The governance model, in particular,           ing the design system going
will vary depending on the organiza-
tion structure and culture, and hence
the processes. Ideally, the design system
would be owned and positioned in a way
that makes it possible to quickly reach
out to the teams and units that need to be
involved.
Part 2                                                       158




Technology fit                                 Tip

 There will always be several technologies
                                               The more you align with the
“under the hood.” Ideally, a design system
                                               company’s must-win goals,
 will provide framework-independent,
                                               the more successful you will
 future-proof means to build a recogniz-
                                               be.
 able, fit-for-purpose experience across the
 various platforms and touchpoints.
                                               • Map out what goals the
 In practice, this requires a solid under-
                                                 design system will help your
 standing of the preferred technologies.
                                                 organization, and the indi-
 In terms of the roll-out, it’s necessary to
                                                 viduals within it achieve
 define which technologies will extend to
                                               • Focus on mid-term and
 the design system it applies to.
                                                 long-term objectives in
                                                 particular
Making it into a success
Introduction                                                   159




   “In many ways, a design system
   is a universal tool, but it is also
   unique to each organization.”

        – David Kendall, Principal,
        UX Design, AT&T


                                      “A design system needs to fit the
                                      organization it serves, but it’s also
                                      going to change the way things are
                                      done.”

                                         – Elisa Pyrhönen,
                                         Senior Service Designer, Idean




         “It’s a lot of work up front, to do this.
         This isn’t a one size fits all approach.”

             – Joseph McLaughlin, Partner,
             Director of Design, Microsoft
Part 2                                                               160




Maintaining design
systems

The creation, communication, and main-       where the incentives do not create biases
tenance of a design system is an endeavor    for selfish behaviors.
that goes beyond part contribution, side-
job, and best-effort models. It requires     In the long-term, we have seen that these
a small, dedicated team of craftsmen,        fully distributed models tend to crumble
storytellers, and facilitators to make and   or be deprioritized under the pressure of
ensure the adoption of a design system.      short-term budgetary priorities: the very
Often, the composition of this core team     same that might be an initial barrier to
evolves, alongside the design system.        having a dedicated team for it.
The larger the organization, and the more
products it has, the more this team is       Can a team do it on their own?
fundamental to act as a catalyst rather      We’ve also seen and heard of cases where
than as a design system police.              the design system initiative was started in
                                             isolation: a small team launching a hero
Are there any alternatives                   project of their own.
to having a core team?
Some companies are able to create and        Being passionate about design systems is
maintain a design system without a dedi-     great, but not making it into a collabora-
cated design system team. In these cases,    tive effort becomes a pitfall sooner or later.
the maintenance of the design system is      Not having the proper support provided
distributed, relying entirely on contribu-   by a well-set initiative also risks system
tions from different product teams.          champions burning out, without ever
This is sometimes called the federated       reaching the satisfaction and quality of
model. The success of this model is          work to be expected.
dependent on a mature, full understand-
ing of the benefits of a “common” system.    Even in the cases where there is a perfect
It tends to thrive only in organizations     set up, team and support models, the
Making it into a success                       161




design system team needs to be willing to
engage with others.

Establish partnerships
and collaborations
Not all the work needs to be done by the
core team. Trying to do this is not sustain-
able.

The core team is responsible for driving
the vision, core aspects, and the evolution
of the design system, and establishing
the partnerships and collaborations that
ensure the system is fit-to-purpose, imple-
mented, and evolving.

Opening up the design system to a larger
group of advocates and collaborators can
feel daunting. In the long run, however,
this has proven as the most successful
approach. Feeling involved and having
a good working knowledge of the design
system ensures not just higher adoption:
it means that the skills of applying and
maintaining the system become more
widely spread within the organization.
Part 2                                     162




Key roles and targets
for engagement


                     Curators




                      Makers




                   Stakeholders




           Customers and other end-users
Making it into a success                                         163




Curators
• Lead the system initiative and set the vision
• Curate what goes in and out of the system
• Actively involve others



Makers
• Primary users of the system to create product and services
• Central knowledge from a shared library for those who use
  the assets and tools provided by the system on a day-to-day
  basis in their work
• High awareness for those involved in the reviews and work
  prioritization of these individuals and teams
• High awareness for all on the shared philosophy, principles,
  and processes related to the system



Stakeholders
• Benchmark awareness of the initiative and its objectives
• Bringing in more perspectives and insights
• Supporting the initiative as needed



Customers and end-users
• People interacting with the brand through product and ser-
  vice experiences
Part 2                                              164




Who should be on our core team?



         Product perspective


         Marvelous crafts(wo)men


         Amazing engineering


         End-user enthusiasm


         Great communication


         Super facilitation and networking skills


         Senior-level oversight and vision


         Other,
Making it into a success                                               165




Start with a couple of experienced              owner. It’s important to have this perspec-
craft(wo)men to make sure every design          tive from the beginning, as facilitating
choice brings value, distinctiveness, and       these discussions and prototyping the
coherence; ideally one of the two with a        processes significantly reduce uncer-
strong technical background - so that the       tainty around what the design system
design system can start living in code          might mean for everyday work.
soon. Systemic thinking and re-usability
of work is a must, as it will allow others to   A design system needs a product owner. S/
leverage the system in their own work and       he is the one who, together with the team,
deliverables.                                   sets the horizon of the work, defines objec-
                                                tives, measures the success of the system.
One or more people needs to have keen           Strong collaboration and networking
human-centric design expertise. This            skills are a must as s/he communicates
ensures that what goes into the system          with top management, product teams,
serves those using it, and end-users and        product managers, and other units. S/
customers. The ability to leverage analyt-      he is also someone working with the key
ics is a plus.                                  stakeholders to push for adoption and
                                                protect the core team’s skills and focus on
Add a storyteller: a person who’s going to      the key priorities.
be able to communicate the reasons why a
design system is essential, and create the      It’s also essential to plan for the growth
narrative (and the artifacts) to persuade       of the team, or at least for the tempo-
management, product managers, design-           rary contribution from other specialists.
ers, developers, and others of the impor-       Architects, copywriters, photographers,
tance of its adoption.                          illustrators, or motion specialists are not
                                                necessarily part of the core team from the
Also, add a person who can build the            beginning, but they will become increas-
design system’s governance model. S/he          ingly critical as your design system
might be a service designer, or coming          evolves.
from the DesignOps team, or be a product
Intro                                                      166




Supporting the curators




  Tip                                  Tip


   Whether your design system          You might be lucky if your
   initiative starts as a top-down     team can fill two (or even
   decision, or as a bottom-up         three) roles. However, even
   effort by a few champions,          the most unicorn and versatile
   begin building a community          person deserves people that
   of advocates. Get people to         can help them. It’s not only
   experience it first hand. Having    more helpful: it also reduces
   more people with a sense of         the risk of shouldering it all,
   the overarching philosophy          instead of actively engaging
   and fundamental mechanisms          others in work
   helps to make the system more
   stable over time




  Tip


   A small organization (or a little
   initiative within a large orga-
   nization) can get started with
   open-sourced references and
   tools, reducing the need to
   craft everything from scratch.
   Getting started and gaining
   the first results will pave the
   way for the next steps
Making it into a success   167
Part 2                                                             168




How might we best
collaborate with
different teams in the
product organization?
Having designers, developers, and their key stakeholders onboard
from day one is key. Without them, the system won’t be effective.
Use the first few weeks (or months) to experiment with different
partnership models. We’ve collected a few examples here to get
you started:




Pass-the-ball                               Pilot
The design system team works on a few       The design system team works closely
examples of work that another team (or      with a small set of products. For a time,
unit) takes as a reference and adapts       the boundaries of the various teams (and
to make them useful for a variety of        their stakeholders), or at least a specific
use-cases.                                  team and the design system team become
                                            blurred.
The design systems team can then take
the work done and finalize the reference    As a result, the work done is a foundation
to include in the design system. As these   for a more extensive design system, or the
are released, the collaborating teams       updated system is released to the next set
implement the latest, “official” versions   of audiences.
Making it into a success                     169




Sparring
This is the loosest form of collaboration,
where a design system team acts as a feed-
back-giver to a product design team, and
help them define the design by asking
questions, providing feedback and recom-
mendations.

This form of collaboration is especially
suited when a team is working on some-
thing that should be included in the
system but isn’t yet official.
Part 2                                                      170




                    Centrica




                    Creating
Industry:           awesome
                    experiences
Energy & Services

Employees:
30k

Headquarters:
United Kingdom      for millions of
Design system
implementation:
8-9 months and
ongoing
                    customers
                    Working with the UK's largest energy supplier to build
                    a design system that unites their business and allows
                    us to create coherent, engaging experiences for their
                    customers.
Successit into
Making   Storya-success
                 Centrica   171
Part 2                                        172




“ From the very beginning,
  this was an amazing
  collaboration across lots of
  different departments and
  skill sets, with executive
  buy-in from our Centrica
  Group Chief Marketing
  Office Marg Jobling. I
  believe that this is truly
  a turning point in how
  design is recognised in our
  company. It shows how
  we are evolving with the
  right ambition to drive us
  forward in digital.”
    – Paul Roberts, Global Digital Director
Successit into
Making   Storya-success
                 Centrica                                     173




Building a new era
British Gas is an established UK brand, owned by Centrica. Along
with the major changes taking place in the energy industry and
regulatory environment, there is immense pressure to save costs.
At the same time, services and new types of offerings are opening
avenues for growth. In both areas, being able to respond to
changing customer needs is not seen as a nice add-on, but as one
of the pillars of Centrica’s strategy.

In the past years, significant investments have been made to
Centrica’s digital capabilities. These investments have shaped their
tech landscape, ways of working, and product teams. A combination
of autonomy and support processes have helped teams focus on
delivery and testing. On the downside, there have been a growing
number of inconsistencies in customer-facing solutions.

Evolutions like these require not only evolving the perception of
customers but internal employees and partners as well. The more
product teams are held back from lingering inefficiencies, the
harder it is for Centrica to make changes that go live and evolve in
the markets.
Part 2                                         174




Nucleus Design System

• Nucleus was created out of three
  initiatives: Brand and marketing teams
  were looking for means to roll out the
  latest evolution in the brand and visual
  language

• Engineering leads were looking for
  a more lightweight, future-proof,
  framework agnostic way of building and
  re-using UI assets

• At the same time, interest in design
  systems was increasing


It soon became apparent that a core team
would be needed. While enthusiastic ad-
vocates wanted to be part of the initiative
and take part in facilitating a design oper-
ations workshop, existing commitments
were at risk.
Successit into
Making   Storya-success
                 Centrica   175
Part 2                                                       176




The adoption journey
Synthesised from four 45min interviews with five designers in total on
their experiences with the design system so far.
Successit into
Making   Storya-success
                 Centrica                                              177




Introducing over­­-                           Streamlined UI
arching principles and                        asset production
UI foundations
                                              It was clear that any UI asset produced for
                                              the system would need to be consumed by
Before diving into producing UI assets,       the various digital platforms already in use.
the core team focused on understand-          This meant that web components came
ing the principles that would guide           first, with many variants to provide addi-
shared decision making. While the visual      tional flexibility. These would then be either
language already came with defined prin-      imported or translated into the chosen plat-
ciples, two sets more were added: one for     forms and frameworks.
user experience, based on the product
teams’ shared understanding and targets,      The benefit of a model like this is that
and one for accessibility, based on web       instead of 20+ teams producing and main-
accessibility standards.                      taining the same, recurring assets, and
                                              replicating them for various environments,
It was essential for the team to translate    a centralized repository is needed. Over-
the latest core brand assets and inspi-       all, customer-­facing solutions would be
rational visualizations into a tangible       leaner in production, with less custom and
foundation. Working on the grid, sizing       more standardized assets in place. Product
mechanisms, etc. helped ensure that           teams would also be able to pull in the latest
assets and styles worked well.                updates a lot faster.

As British Gas had already established a      This repository would also be governed
design operations function, many essen-       differently, helping prevent the pain points
tial elements such as regular user testing,   of past, centralized resources. However,
contextual observations, internal meet-       custom solutions are discouraged unless
ups, early stage, and high-level definition   embedded into the system for the benefit of
templates, as well as method descriptions     all (including end-users). It’s easiest to see
were already in place.                        which specific solutions are working across a
                                              broader number of instances.
Part 2                                                     178




Leading with
outcomes
“I’d thought of having a design system team solely focused
on building new components and getting them out for other
teams. But in the last year, I’ve seen a shift to this community
and adoption side and the team running sessions to upskill and
educate teams. It’s changing the culture and engagement across
different product teams.”

– Matthew Gottschalk, Design Operations Manager
Making
Successit into
         Storya-success
                 Centrica                                             179




Instead of having a fixed project plan,        • To understand how accessibility gui­dance
the core team’s activities are shaped by         might be improved, a series of roundtable
the desired outputs, outcomes, rituals,          discussions were run to know when and
and roadmap. There were four outputs             how issues creep in
selected for tracking: how customers are       • Running a discovery sprint, including
benefiting from it, how product teams are        prototyping, end-user testing, web
able to trust it, reducing waste in internal     analytics, and internal interviews to
processes without sacrificing creativity         inform why and how a particular, major,
and collaboration, as well as ensuring the       global component might need to be
continued well-being of the Nucleus team.        reformed
                                               • Interviews with designers on their
Following up on outcomes each month              ongoing journey with Nucleus to
helps to keep focus on what matters:             identify potential gaps and drivers
• It’s another means for a busy team to          for adoption
  reflect on the successes and potential       • Blurring the boundaries of product teams
  pitfalls a bit more objectively.               and the Nucleus core team to ensure
• Knowing both the ups and downs makes           critical, soon-to-come updates based on
  it easier for management to offer support      the shared foundations, reducing tech and
  as needed.                                     design debt

In addition to shared rituals,                 Not only are these activities helping
continuous discovery always informs            in increasing adoption and reducing
the next steps:                                friction to the product teams everyday
• A collaborative workshop on the meaning      work. They are ensuring that more and
  and potential processes for collaboration,   more individuals are having discussions
  held before the first launch                 about what good design and development
• Short, introductory interviews with          means for British Gas and Centrica, both
  product owners and their managers to         in terms of business and end-customers.
  map the roles and needs of the various
  product teams in light of the upcoming       Having early adopters has also helped
  design system                                the core team evolve Nucleus. It has also
• Using a day to onboard new team              enabled new workflows for teams. For
  members in-depth on past decisions, as       example, being able to preview live assets,
  well as for working together to draft the    trying out copy and image variations, has
  roadmap, metrics, and priorities for work    enabled collaboration on minor campaign
• For the initial launch, workshops with 60    updates in much faster cycles.
  participants in total were held
Part 2                                       180




Being open to
collaboration also means
being open to tough
discussions

New workflows are best experienced first-
hand. However, this requires product
teams to invest some time outside of their
existing commitments. Before new cross-
team processes become practiced, it’s
hard to give them a timeline. So it might
put existing backlogs and performance
metrics at risk. Sometimes, just the idea
of that is enough to bring experiments to
a grinding halt. If you have two or more
objectives that are worthy but seem-
ingly impossible to have at the same time,
which one do you go for?

Even champion and early adopters can
act in ways that undermine the system.
Successes breed new requests. Not every
change discussion is a nice and easy one.
Successit into
Making   Storya-success
                 Centrica   181
Part 2                                                                  182




Conclusion
“Some of our best people are doing some of our best work.
We already see the benefits of the design system, but more than
that, its influence and reach have been extraordinary. British Gas has
provided the rich foundation for wider Centrica adoption from this
approach. Super exciting times!”

– Paul Roberts, Global Digital Director




Nucleus has gone live with only a limited       • As the community has grown, weekly
set of assets, to a limited set of teams. At      sessions dedicated to specific, Nucleus-­
the same time, community building has             related topics have been introduced
been raised as one of the three key outputs     • A range of discovery tickets have been
(tools and re-usable UI assets being the          opened, making it easier for teams to
other two categories).                            contribute to upcoming assets
                                                • Testing run by specialist users, in addition
Several regular community-building                to increased awareness early on, ensures
activities are running:                           that shared UI assets and styles meet
• Nucleus core team members have been             accessibility requirements, including but
  participating in meetups of various discip­     not limited to compatibility with assistive
  lines and units, both to listen in, and to      technologies
  share updates
• Catch-ups, feedback sessions and reviews
  have been run with individuals and
  teams adopting the assets and styles
  to better understand how assets are
  adopted, including potential tweaks and
  ­experiments
Successit into
Making   Storya-success
                 Centrica                                          183




3 months in numbers




17%                                          75+
Quicker page load time, likely to increase   Participants from different disciplines
as more elements are converted               taking part in weekly Nucleus sessions




42%
More lightweight Nucleus bundle size (kb)
                                             20+
                                             Advocates and early adopters who are
(delivered in a way that requires minimal    championing Nucleus
effort from product teams)




93%
Increase in a browser accessibility score
                                             4+
                                             Tough discussions and/or partnerships,
(and encouraging feedback from specialist    working together to adopt Nucleus
user tests)




10%                                          15+
Lower bounce rate on an A/B test             Incoming questions and requests / week
Nucleus variant                              to core team members
Part 3   184
The future of design systems                      185




                       Part 3




                       The future
                       of design
                       systems
                       In a changing landscape, what
                       do we need to start thinking about?
Part 3                                                                186




What’s your
next move?
When we asked our interviewees about the future, many topics came up:
the changing nature of our profession, our tools, our organizations, our
technologies. Some of the ideas felt radical, but many of these were framed
as developments our interviewees have already seen or been expecting
in this field for a while. Instead of definite statements, we used the answers
we received to formulate more questions. After all, where’s the fun in talking
about the future if you’re not going to think about your part in it? We’ve done
the introductions. What are your thoughts?
The future of design systems                          187




In addition to shared rituals, continuous discovery
always informs the next steps:
• Who are the “product people” of the future?
  What are their defining skill-sets?

• Who cares for craft anymore?
  What’s a good sign of efficiency?

• What role will artificial intelligence play?
  What role should we play?

• What about service patterns?
  What role should APIs and microservices play?

• What would be the best design system for voice?
  What about gesture-based interfaces?
  What about spatial awareness?

• What about non-digital experiences?
  What about omnichannel experiences?

• What’s the organization of the future?
  What’s the ultimate role of a design system?
Part 3                                                                188




Who are the “product
people” of the future?
What are their
defining skill-sets?
Now that the pixels are done...
Let’s start with the old news: Our industry has changed. Basic UI patterns
and flows for online services have been solved, time and time again. There
are different flavors of patterns and styles to choose from, but the pixel
pushing UI jobs are disappearing.

At the same time, the UI slice of design and development is becoming
increasingly available for the many. No special skills are needed, just a bit
of patience and curiosity to get started with the right tools and resources.
Along these lines, we’re expecting both a few sighs of relief, a few identity
crises, and ultimately, really, really fascinating things to take place.
Already today, we’d like to see more and more design systems explicitly
encourage people to go beyond the UI.
The future of design systems   189




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                               190




Who cares for craft
anymore?
What’s a good sign of
efficiency?
The counter movement
We want to live in a world where creativity and craft continue to prosper
even through radical changes. One of the points we’ve wanted to make in
this book is that design systems are not silver bullets. They need to be set
up in a way that encourages creativity. Some standardization is good. Too
much, and we lose our ability to think for ourselves. We’d like to see more
design systems that manage to offer both stability and exploration.
The future of design systems   191




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                                   192




What role will artificial
intelligence play?
What role should we
play?
Better decision making
We’d like to see a world where algorithms and machine learning help us
observe our environment in new ways and challenge our in-built biases.
The more rapidly we generate and analyze alternative solutions, the more
inclusive our models need to be. This way, we can serve broader audiences.
The more we make radical personalizations that allow whole designs to be
subtly adjusted on the fly, based on previous behavior, current context, or
even mindset, the more mature ethical evaluations we need to make.

After all, we’d like a robot-system to be not only “intelligent” but also “kind,”
and it’s up to us to define and trace all the surprising forms and patterns
these definitions might take.
The future of design systems   193




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                                194




What about service
patterns?
Step up the game
Service patterns are recurring interactions or sets of interactions in a digital
product or service. Common service patterns are used to help you: to join or
onboard the service; use the service, and leave the service.

Well-designed service patterns encourage users to return to use their
services because of their easy interaction.



Why service patterns are the next iteration of your design system:
• Most of your digital products are services, so being consistent with but-
  tons and layouts is only the first step of creating your design system

• Service patterns make your complex cross channel services more acces-
  sible for your customers to navigate and easier for your teams to deliver

• Great services include common interaction patterns or building blocks of
  common sets of activities, and these patterns should be designed to feel
  consistent, regardless of the channel it is delivered by

• It takes a lot of work to create seamless, consistent front end experiences,
  but creating service patterns can make it easier for your tech, systems,
  and process teams to help you deliver a great consistent experience on
  the front end

• Creating common service patterns makes it easier for you to measure
  success across instances of the patterns
The future of design systems   195




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                               196




What would be the
best design system
for voice? What
about gesture based
interfaces?
What about spatial
awareness?
Make it more open
For a while now, it hasn’t been only about screens anymore. Wouldn’t it be
time to see more public, industry-defining, best practice setting, customer-
centric design systems in these areas?

If you haven’t already, map out where you stand in this ecosystem, and how
to succeed. Are you going to partner up for a stronger coalition? Are you in a
place to make others follow you?

If you’re hands-on with products, get ready to prototype for voice, and for
VR/AR/MR and hone in your understanding of their timing and context.
The future of design systems   197




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                               198




What about non-
digital experiences?
What about
omnichannel
experiences?
Break more silos
We’ve seen the digital capabilities of organizations mature over the past
years. Major initiatives like these are also one of the reasons why design
systems have been in demand.

For the coming years, wouldn’t it be time to bridge the gap between digital
and non-digital experiences?

This means bridging the remaining gaps between different disciplines and
units. It means having a better, overarching understanding of the various
customer journeys.

If you have a design system in place, it might serve as a great, cross-
organizational platform to do just these. If you don’t yet have a design system
in place, be aware that these aspects might not be discussed prominently
enough by design system specialists today.
The future of design systems   199




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                               200




What’s the
organization
of the future?
Open design systems to wider audiences
We’d like to see more design systems set up with the specific job of serving
as enablers, of spotting gaps in the workflows, bringing teams and other
disciplines together, and raising questions from all the provided different
flavors of customer and user experiences. It can only happen if more people
are open to collaboration towards wider audiences.

In the future, maybe we’ll need another term to describe culture and
collaboration focused initiatives. As the organizational structure and
connection points evolve, a design system needs to evolve as well.
The future of design systems   201




What are your thoughts?
Part 3                                                     202




                     Our recipe
Ingredients for
success

We’ve found
that each design
system initiative    We hope you’ve enjoyed this book. The benefit of
would benefit from   running hours and hours of interviews means there’s
having these four    an abundance of findings to share. As we’ve learned,
ingredients taken    each design system needs to fit the organization
into account.        in question, but it’s also going to change the way
                     things are done. It’s a native solution that builds on
                     the brand, culture, maturity, organizational structure,
• Vision and
                     ways of working, desired direction, and audiences to
  principles
                     be involved. There have also been clear overlaps and
• Shared practices
                     similarities across the different cases we’ve heard.
  and tools
• Concrete design
                     As a final step, we’d like to share our synthesis: the
  tools.
                     Idean recipe for design systems. Instead of a fixed
• Communication
                     process, we’ve stated it as the four key ingredients
  and training
                     that need to be taken into account in any design
• Governance
                     system initiative.
The future of design systems   203
Part 3                                                              204




Idean recipe for
design systems




Vision and principles
Businesses, products, and services are continually evolving. One
of the highlights of a successful design system is being able to
express underlying priorities. What principles do we use in our
decision making? What is the desired customer experience like?
What makes a solution a good fit for your organization? Which
of our components and styles reflect this best? This way, prod-
uct teams are able to explore alternative solutions while keeping
shared success criterias in mind.
The future of design systems                                         205




Shared practices and tools
High-level statements are essential for alignment, but they also
need to be applied in practice. A design system needs to be creat-
ed and delivered in a way that empowers product teams in their
everyday work.
Part 3                                                                 206




Communication and training
Adopting new ways of working takes time and practice, even when
the benefits are well understood. Clear communication, demos, and
workshops build familiarity early on. They also allow us to listen
to the intended users of the system and find the best solutions
together. As the design system matures, communication and train-
ing provide an essential social aspect, bringing people from differ-
ent teams together to collaborate.
The future of design systems                                         207




Governance
There are several ways to set up and run a design system. These
tend to define the rules of ownership and change management.
Whether the organization is centralized or decentralized, under-
standing the needs of an organization helps us find the right fit.
It also helps us work together to drive positive change. When it
comes to steering a design system, following up on the expected
outcomes and impact allows us to make the right prioritizations.
Appendix                                     208




“		Put the energy to
 create something
 more meaningful,
 more delightful,
 rather than just
 getting sh** done”
   – Petri Heiskanen, SVP of Design, Idean
Appendix
A home for useful things
Appendix                                                                210




A bit of terminology

Philosophy                                       Principles
A philosophy defines what’s right for            Principles bridge the overarching
an organization and the customers                philosophy with the hands-on craft.
it serves.                                       They are high-level enough to spark
                                                 iteration and actionable enough to
We believe that each design system is            serve as selection criteria.
based on a comprehensive understan­
ding of the brand identity, the ecosystem        At first glance, principles often seem to
of products and services it provides, the        take the form of a highly curated set of
platforms and architecture it relies on, the     keywords or sentences. It becomes clear
current culture within the organization,         that principles are also about shared
it’s a strategy for the future, as well as the   beliefs or particular points of view that
pillars of the business.                         truly matter - as well as a range of exam-
                                                 ples and first-hand experiences on when
It’s essential that the philosophy is clearly    and how these might best be realized.
defined before diving into the specifics of
a design system. Creating the first series       Larger organizations may have multiple
of blueprints requires engaging individ-         sets of principles. For example, visual
uals and units across the organization.          identity and user experience might
Not only will this fast-forward adoption,        require their own sets of principles. Prin-
but it will shine a light on all the differ-     ciples can be overarching in these larger
ent hidden debates. It helps to build a          organizations, and so clarifying the hier-
more multi-disciplinary, cross-functional        archies and providing contexts of use for
understanding of what truly matters.             each set is essential.
It will also help identify and prioritize the
high-value starting points for a design
system.
                                                                     211




UI Foundations                               Reusable assets
UI foundations make it possible for          Assets are the building blocks and
reusable, ready-made assets to be            templates that are used to explore
combined in many ways without the            and deliver products and services
interface and user flow feeling “off”        for end-users.
or disconnected.
                                             Creating, distributing, and evolving UI
The first step would be to define the        libraries can form a significant part of a
underlying structures, key behaviors, and    design system initiative, at least when it
signature styles. These include:             comes to the aspects of craft. The most
                                             powerful examples we’ve seen blend the
•   Grids                                    boundaries between front-end develop-
•   Colors                                   ment and design.
•   Typographic choices
•   The use of motion                        A design system can also be used to influ-
•   The semantics                            ence new ways of working. Distribut-
•   The responsive behaviors                 ing templates such as journey maps and
•   The connection points to APIs            service blueprints, plus raising awareness
                                             and providing training can help teams
Ideally, these would also extend to the UX   focus on the user and further build on
copy, which forms a considerable part of     business needs.
the experience.
                                             By definition, reusable assets are going
These are all the defining practices that    to be used by multiple, if not all teams (or
come with any particular technology and      units). It tends to be beneficial for a prod-
are most familiar to users.                  uct team to closely collaborate with design
                                             and development operations (if these are
                                             in place).
Appendix                                                              212




Documentation                                  Design

Take a bold step and go beyond your            If “design system” wasn’t such an
initial associations of “documentation.”       established term already, we’d be
                                               calling it something else.
Think of the types of content you love, the
best training you’ve ever participated in,     Design has become more conceptual than
the clearest and actionable rules. Think       anything. For example, it is no longer
of the tools and services that give you just   perceived merely as a form of giving life to
the thing you were looking for, allowing       a product, object, or artifact. It has made
you to move on with your main agenda.          breakthroughs and now has “a seat at the
Those are the things we should think           table” at the highest levels of organiza-
about when we refer to the documenta-          tions.
tion.
                                               Design (and design thinking in partic-
For design systems, creating a public or       ular) is a mindset, characterized by
semi-public site has become a default          human-centered empathy and collabora-
form of documentation. It provides an          tive working. It also means prototyping
easy-to-distribute, up-to-date, anytime        early and often. All of these are an essen-
access, onboarding, and learning               tial part of creating things that people
resource. In this book, we’d like to high-     need and enjoy, whether the result is a
light the other activities that help to        service, a product, a process, or a brand.
produce and curate documentation.
                                                                       213




Products and Services                           Customer and Employee
                                                Experiences
In this book, we tend to use “product”          A design system helps create
as a shorthand for both products                cohesive customer experiences, as
and services.                                   well as streamline the design process
                                                for employees. If the everyday work
There also tends to be a in-built bias for      experience is “off” within the organi-
digital touchpoints in particular. After all,   zation, it lessens the chances for the
just getting the mechanisms in place to         design system to be successful.
have the design system takes some time.
                                                As we learned from our interviews, a
It’s good to remember that even the small-      design system initiative easily slips into
est tactical UI decisions can raise ques-       organizational design. There’s so much
tions about other aspects, for example,         work involved in the internal implemen-
offline steps, business rules, exchanges        tation.
with service staff, or the available insights
on customers, their behavior, and rela-         We’re all for ensuring that being part of a
tionship with the brand.                        design system initiative feels worthwhile,
                                                even rewarding. However, there’s a risk of
Similarly, the more popular a system            forgetting about customer insights.
becomes, the more legacy there will be.
Without a strong vision for the desired         A design system’s core team is often
offering (both in terms of internal buy-in      highly dependent on other teams, and
and customer demand), it will be signifi-       the stronger the collaboration and shared
cantly harder to manage a timeline and          knowledge are, the more people will see
other various approaches for rolling out        the value for having a design system.
the design system.                              system soon starts decreasing in the eyes
                                                of the various experts relying on it.
Appendix                                                             214




A very short, incomplete,
and scattered history of
how we’ve gotten here


Companies start documenting their visual     It’s all about agile, lean, and co. The auton-
identities in the form of brand manu-        omy of teams increases significantly, at
als, like NASA’s graphics design manual      least in some ways. Organizational depen-
created in 1975.                             dencies are never that far away.

The first, public draft of Web Content       Donella H. Meadows’ "Thinking in
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) is           Systems," is published posthumously
published in 1998.                           in 2008, serving as a primer to systems
                                             thinking and encouraging us to apply it to
Gary Hamel’s “The Future of Manage-          tackle the real-life problems that tend to
ment,” is published in 2007. The must-       seem most daunting.
win challenge for continued innovation
is framed, among other things, as a need     Brad Frost’s blog, “Atomic Design,” turns
to “create a democracy for ideas” through    into a book in 2013. Brad Frost makes the
communities free of past bureaucracies.      term “design system” more widely known
                                             for digital creatives.
Managing and distributing code-heavy
projects becomes easier. Github is founded   IBM Design Language is launched in 2014.
in 2007, starting its march over the years   In addition to the shared guidelines, a
to become one of the go-­to-­platforms for   significant change initiative takes place
developers.                                  within the organization, evening out the
                                             previously low design-to-developer ratio.
                                            215




Google’s Material Design, first launched
in 2014, sets a specific benchmark for
design systems, and many intended users.
It provides a tremendous leap forward for
the Android operating system.

Smashing Design book on Design systems
by Alla Kholmatova is published in late
2017, reflecting an ongoing appetite for
practical manuals on how to get started
with a design system initiative.
Appendix                                                              216




Thought Leader
Interview Participants

Friends & extended network




David Kendall           Emanuela Damiani        Hayley Hughes         Jason Cyr
Principal, UX Design,   Senior UX Product       Design Lead, Airbnb   Director, Design
AT&T                    Designer, Mozilla                             Transformation,
                                                                      Cisco




Jeoff Wilks             J F Grossen             Paul Roberts          Joseph McLaughlin
Director, Carbon        VP of Design, Global,   Global Digital        Partner, Director of
Design System, IBM      HERE Technologies       Director, Centrica    Design, Microsoft
                                                              217




Josh Baron          Marie Petit          Marjukka Mäkelä      Matthew Gottschalk
Senior Principal    Leader of the        Head of UX Design,   Design Operations
Product Designer,   UX Chapter,          Digital ABB          Manager, Centrica
Dell                Crédit Agricole
                    Technologies &
                    Services




Nick Cochran        Nathan Mitchell
Design Practices    Design Manager and
Lead, ExxonMobil    Chief Interaction
                    Designer, National
                    Instruments
Appendix                                                  218




Idean experts




Audrey Hacq       Christian Aminoff   Corne van Dooren    Elisa Pyrhönen
Idean France      Idean Helsinki      Idean Netherlands   Idean Helsinki




Jess Leitch       Jordan Fisher       Jules Mahé          Karolina Boremalm
Idean Palo Alto   Idean UK            Idean France        Idean Sweden
                                                             219




Matias Vaara      Kevin van der Bijl       Sampo Jalasto
Idean Helsinki    Idean Helsinki           Idean Palo Alto




Petri Heiskanen   Robin Klein Schiphorst
Idean Helsinki    Idean Norway
Appendix                                  220




Adobe




Cisco Guzman        Shawn Ceris
Director, Product   Director of Design,
Management, Adobe   Adobe Design,
XD, Adobe           Adobe
Appendix                                                                   221




Idean studios
Looking to get started with design systems? We have studios around
the globe, with experience solving problems in just about every
industry. Get in touch and let’s discuss what we can achieve together.

hi@idean.com




Europe
                                 Madrid, Spain                     Stockholm, Sweden
Barcelona, Spain
                                 Calle Puerto de Somport, 9        Fleminggatan 18,
Avinguda Diagonal, 199
                                 28050 Madrid                      112 26 Stockholm
08018 Barcelona
                                 madrid@idean.com                  stockholm@idean.com
barcelona@idean.com

                                 Malmö, Sweden                     Tampere, Finland
Bergen, Norway
                                 Nordenskiöldsgatan 8              Kuninkaankatu 22,
Nordre Nøstekaien 1
                                 211 19 Malmö                      33210 Tampere
5011 Bergen
                                 malmo@idean.com                   tampere@idean.com
bergen@idean.com

                                 Montpellier, France               Utrecht, Netherlands
Berlin, Germany
                                 L’Orée des mas,                   Reykjavikplein 1,
Oberwallstrasse 6
                                 Avenue du golf,                   3543 Utrecht
10117 Berlin
                                 34670 Baillargues                 contact.netherlands@idean.com
berlin@idean.com
                                 contact.france@idean.com

                                 Oslo, Norway                      Valencia, Spain
Gothenburg, Sweden
                                 Karenslyst Allé 16 D,             Av. del Marqués de Sotelo, 6
Grafiska vägen 2,
                                 0278 Oslo                         46002 Valencia
412 63 Gothenburg
                                 oslo@idean.com                    valencia@idean.com
gothenburg@idean.com

                                 Paris, France
Helsinki, Finland
                                 8 rue Cambacérès,
Kauppaneuvoksentie 8,
                                 75008 Paris
00200 Helsinki
                                 contact.france@idean.com
helsinki@idean.com

                                 Stavanger, Norway
London, UK
                                 Maskinveien 24,
Victoria House
                                 4033 Stavanger
1 Leonard Circus, EC2A 4DQ
                                 stavanger@idean.com
london@idean.com
Appendix                                             222




USA                      Asia

Austin                   Shanghai
713 E 6th St,            28F, SML Center, No.610,
TX 78701                 Xujiahui Road,
austin@idean.com         200025

New York City            Singapore
138 Spring St,           6 Battery Road #14-05/06,
NY 10012                 049909
newyork@idean.com

Palo Alto
214 Homer Ave,
CA 94301
paloalto@idean.com

San Francisco
427 Brannan St,
CA 94107
sanfrancisco@idean.com
223
Appendix   224
Appendix                          225




           Contributors

           We’d also like to thank those who
           helped us run the interviews, synthesise
           the findings, add their comments, draft
           content and visualisations, run edits, or
           otherwise contribute to the making of
           this book.

           Audrey Hacq
           Ben Lambert
           Benedikte Torgersen
           Carel Coenraad
           Charlotta Turku
           Christian Aminoff
           Elisa Pyrhönen
           Emmi Makkonen
           Felipe Villarreal
           Franco Papeschi
           Jamie Weston
           Jordan Winick
           Josselin Despinay
           Jules Mahé
           Jin Kim
           Karolina Boremalm
           Laura Immonen-Beatty
           Maria Knutsson
           Maria Niiniharju
           Markus Ruottu
           Matias Ljubica
           Mindy Reyes
           Petri Heiskanen
           Pierre-Henri Clouin
           Robin Pettersson
           Sampo Jalasto
           Victor Janhagen
           + others
Appendix                             226




Your notes
Plan, write, sketch, and scribble.
227
Appendix   228
229
Appendix   230
231
While there are plenty of resources available on design
systems by now, we haven’t seen enough materials
that address the human aspects, the way it shapes your
organisation… or its outcomes”.

We’ve been reaching out to our extended network and own
specialists to listen to their take on design systems. In your
hands, you’re holding a book to the insights gained.

idean.com/learn
