2   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




Table of Contents
         Introduction                                      3
         Starting an MVP Collection                        10
         Building an MVP User Base                         15
         Building an MVP Contribution                      25
         Plan
         After MVP Design System                           29
         Launch
         Conclusion                                        30
         Contributors                                      32




         This guide is for scrappy design system builders –
         designers, frontend developers, and other product
         workflow hackers – who are ready to reap the rewards
         of a design system but may be starting out with fewer
         resources and less support than they’d like.


                                                         © 2020 InVisionApp, Inc.
3   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




Introduction
         The term ‘minimum viable product’ (MVP) refers to the
         first of many user-facing iterations. The magic of the MVP
         idea is the way it helps product teams start small and
         prevent scope creep. Once a team has defined their MVP,
         they can hold themselves and their leaders accountable
         to releasing at a clear cutoff, so they can iterate based on
         real user data as soon as possible.

         It’s an especially good way to think about a new design
         system, because design systems are notoriously
         complex, sprawling across multiple tech stacks,
         interconnecting, growing, and evolving more rapidly than
         other products. Without a clear plan for an MVP design
         system, it can be tough for teams to begin and even
         tougher to launch.

         Here you’ll find a framework to narrow the scope and
         build momentum for an MVP design system. It’ll provide
         steps to create a modest, approachable, but still viable
         design system with real users and real benefits.
4   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




Why start a design system now?
        If you’re reading this, you probably know that a design
        system can deliver major benefits, including:

        Consistency Unified experiences across products,
        platforms, regions, and teams.

        Scale Company-wide application of code and design norms
        (including compliance and accessibility standards) and
        sustainable workflows for all—no matter the number of
        designers and developers, nor their distance.

        Speed Faster time to market, reduction in development and
        design time, and more room in the day for real innovation.


Why not now?
        The reasons not to build a design system can seem just
        as compelling:

        No resources You have no design system buy-in from
        executives, and therefore no dedicated staff, no budget,
        nor a divine mandate to support the effort.

        No time You have zero sprints to spare in the wash of
        competing product and brand priorities.

        No confidence You’re overwhelmed by the potential size
        and scope of building and maintaining a high-functioning
        design system, and you don’t know where to begin.
5   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                 These barriers are normal.
                      Start anyway.



       Right now might seem like the most inconvenient time to
       build a design system, but it could also be the most crucial
       time for your business to have one. When market disruption
       and competition intensify, that’s when consistency, scale,
       and speed become even more vital to success.

       Here’s the good news. Our conversations with leading
       design system builders reveal that, regardless of company
       size or industry, starting in less-than-ideal conditions isn’t
       a show-stopper. In fact, it’s normal.

       It’s normal to start a design system with zero full-time
       design system builders.

       It’s normal to feel that design system work doesn’t fit into
       your current product timelines.

       And it’s normal to feel unequal to the task of building
       something so comprehensive, universal, and useful to so
       many teams, products, and edge cases.

       Frankly, it would be weird if you didn’t feel a little awed
       by that.
6   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




             Despite these barriers, people still build design systems
             that revolutionize the way their teams ship products. They
             succeed because they’ve uncovered a secret:

             Success doesn’t depend on you alone. It’s not about your
             ability to build a massive design system, and then maintain
             and grow it yourself.

             Success depends on you and everyone else. It’s about
             teams and their leaders buying into a thoughtful, sustainable
             plan that will make their work better, faster, and easier.




                    Joe Galliford, Designer
                    IBM iX


                    Yes, you’re qualified.
    CASE STUDY      Joe Galliford joined IBM iX as an intern, fresh out of
                    design school. He had no formal design system
                    training or experience, but his first assignment was
                    to create a design system for a multinational client
                    that would unite the work of four teams scattered
                    across continents. He used InVision Design System
                    Manager as a best-practice template, and spun up a
                    functioning collection of foundations and
                    components in a matter of days. A few months later,
                    teams were seeing a 50% increase in workflow
                    efficiency.
7   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




        Joe’s advice:
              “ Don’t worry about getting it perfect right away.
                 Even if you don’t have every icon yet, just by
                 having a few components and guidelines available
                 in DSM you’re going to start seeing results. “




       This guide is going to help you develop the mindset you
       need, so you can start strong and help everyone create a
       truly viable MVP design system.

       Let’s begin by eradicating a pervasive MVP design
       system myth.

       A collection is not a design system.
       Many teams visualize an MVP design system as a collection
       of foundations and components. They believe if they build a
       good library, everyone will use it.

       A collection is a powerful asset, but it’s only one third of
       a design system. If you want broad adoption, you’ll need a
       solid understanding of designer and developer workflows.
       And if your design system is going to grow and evolve, it will
       need growing, evolving guidelines and governance.
8   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




               What is a Design System?
               A collection of             Used by both            Controlled with

               Foundations                 Design                  Guidelines
               Basic building blocks       Assets created and      Written usage, rules
               Colors                      used in a design tool   and recommendations
               Typography                  Design Files            Accessibility
               Icons                       Libraries               Examples
               Spacing                     Styles                  Patterns
               Grids                                               Principles
               Motion                                              Usage
                                                                   Voice & Tone

               Components                  Engineering             Governance
               Reusable UI elements        Implementation in       Adoption, maintenance
               made with foundations       front-end development   processes, analysis
               Buttons                     APIs                    Communication
               Cards                       Components              Contribution
               Input fields                Tokens                  Incentives
               Pagination                                          Measurement
               Tabs                                                Reviews
               Tables                                              Versions




         A collection is only one-third of a design system. To be successful, teams need
         to include the other two-thirds... the people part. Source: Guide to: Benchmarking
         your design system


         It’s natural to want to focus on libraries. You can see a
         library. You can organize it neatly and make a thousand
         satisfying choices. This blue, not that one, this font with
         this exact size and spacing in this button state.

         It’s much harder to picture the more intangible concepts
         like user needs, workflows, and contribution models… in
         short, the heart of a living design system.

         People bring it to life.
9   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




         The rest of the definition – the people side – is what
         animates the entire design system. People have to invest
         in it and follow a plan to make it grow, evolve, and ultimately
         transform the entire product workflow. They also have to
         want to use it. Otherwise all you have is a nice collection.

         That means your plans for an MVP design system must
         include and prioritize people.



               What is a Design System?
               A collection of             Used by both            Controlled with

               Foundations                 Design                  Guidelines
               Basic building blocks       Assets created and      Written usage, rules
               Colors                      used in a design tool   and recommendations
               Typography                  Design Files            Accessibility
               Icons                       Libraries               Examples
               Spacing                     Styles                  Patterns
               Grids                                               Principles
               Motion                                              Usage
                                                                   Voice & Tone

               Components                  Engineering             Governance
               Reusable UI elements        Implementation in       Adoption, maintenance
               made with foundations       front-end development   processes, analysis
               Buttons                     APIs                    Communication
               Cards                       Components              Contribution
               Input fields                Tokens                  Incentives
               Pagination                                          Measurement
               Tabs                                                Reviews
               Tables                                              Versions




         The other two-thirds of a design system–the people part–brings a design system to life.
         Source: Guide to: Benchmarking your design system


         We’ll explore an approachable way to scope the people
         work, so that it doesn’t seem quite so murky later. But first,
         let’s scope out the easier bit.
10   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




The easy part:
Starting an MVP collection
          Since we’re aiming for a quick start, the mantra is "Borrow,
          not build." Your first library iteration can launch much
          sooner, with far less deliberation, if you…

          Draw on momentum and resources
          already at play.
          Take advantage of a brand redesign or new product
          version. The project is already approved, funded, and
          underway. All that remains is adding those redesigned
          foundation elements and components to the fledgeling
          design system collection as they are greenlit for product.
          It’s a small dose of extra effort with a big payoff.

          Draw from the most fully-baked product in the portfolio.
          This helps you avoid arguing over the minutiae of colors
          and button styles, because you’re working with precedents
          already backed by broad consensus and daily use. When
          choosing between two similar components to add to the
          collection (e.g. two types of tables) choose the one with the
          most complex, demanding use case.

          If you have no good source for pre-developed components
          and styles to draw from, consider an open source library
          like Google Material.
11   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                     Scope tip


              InVision DSM provides a templated place to organize
              your collection. You can also use it to scope your work.
              Limit your first collection effort to these DSM sections:

              All Foundations sections
              Only three Components groups


              “I recommend people include buttons as one of
              their first three component groups. People assume
              buttons will be easy to manage, but there are so
              many button state variations that it’s actually a
              really good place to start. Other components will
              seem simple after that.”

              – Zoe Adelman, Design Systems Consultant




              Talk to an expert like Zoe about how DSM can help
12   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




          Add documentation. You don’t need to have every bit
          of documentation loaded in your MVP collection, but
          you do need the minimum. Without that it’s only a
          sticker sheet.

          Each of your three component groups needs at least:

              A definition
              Do’s and don’ts
              Rules for accessibility and compliance




          The rest can be added as you go, after launch.
13   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




Recap: Creating an MVP collection
     Remember:
     Find components already in play
     Draw from the most fully-baked product in the portfolio
     Consider an open source library like Google Material
     Aim for iteration, not perfection




          Success looks like this:

          You take advantage of existing momentum to start a
          strong collection of borrowed foundations and
          components, with minimum documentation.
14   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                      Joe Stutzman, Art Director
                      Host Gator




                     No dev help? No problem.
     CASE STUDY
                     Joe Stutzman, Art Director had been wishing for a
                     design system for his team at HostGator for years, but
                     lacked developer resources to build a monument site.

                     “Other teams have to call in a dev every time they
                     need to update something in their design system,”
                     he said. “I don’t want to commit developers to that.”

                     The latest version of DSM was exactly the tool he
                     needed, empowering him to publish and version a
                     design system without any developer help. “I was able
                     to quickly get something out in the world – something
                     I could demo to show people how a design system
                     changes things, how you can create a new page in ten
                     minutes.” Now he’s using that momentum to gain
                     executive support and ultimately to get the resources
                     he needs to hook up coded components for developers.


                  Joe’s advice:
                    “ You’ve got to go in with a mindset to get your
                      hands dirty. Put it on paper, mess with it, break
                      things, iterate.”
15   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




The people part:
Building an MVP user base
          Without users, a design system is dead on arrival. But
          you don’t need a large user base from the start. For the
          MVP, focus your efforts where they can have the biggest
          long-term impact: with executives and developers.

          Prepare an executive sponsor (or three).
          An executive sponsor can help you secure time, tools,
          staff, and users. But for the MVP stage, you only need
          support for an experiment.

          Instead of attempting to get buy-in for your dream
          design system right away, aim to stoke executive
          curiosity. Later, you can wow them with real results and
          make a bigger request.

          Here’s how to spot an executive sponsor and prepare
          them to help:

          Find an influential leader, one who has plenty to gain
          from improving design and development workflows.
          Likely candidates include:
16   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




          A product leader assigned to the product you’re using to
          kickstart the MVP collection
          A design leader with budget and/or sway
          A frontend development leader who benefitted from
          design systems in a prior role, or who preaches the
          wisdom of reuse instead of building from scratch

          Frame the potential impact in terms of success
          metrics they care about.
          For a product leader, that would be higher quality,
          sustainable consistency, and speed for future iterations.
          For a design leader, it could be more time to invest in big-
          picture user experience work, and less time moving pixels –
          plus consistency between products and teams.
          For a development leader, it’s usually about increasing
          speed and reducing frustration. Ask questions and listen
          hard to pinpoint the right angle for the right person.




              Sample impact framing script:
              “We’re already spending X developer hours and X
              designer hours to get X product out the door. If we
              invest just 5% more energy and add the work we do into
              a reusable system, we could save ourselves half the
              time down the road.”
17   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                    Tessa Rodes, Senior Design Manager
                    IBM




                  Latch onto a big executive goal.
     CASE STUDY
                  Whenever possible, the IBM Cloud team used Carbon,
                  IBM’s central design system, one of the most advanced
                  in the world. But Tessa Rodes and a few teammates
                  hoped to develop their own branch of the design
                  system. They called it a pattern asset library (Cloud PAL).
                  It would draw from Carbon, but it would include special
                  components, variations, and guidelines designed to
                  cover the unique needs of IBM Cloud product offerings.

                  Even though designers and developers understood the
                  value of working with a design system, the would-be
                  Cloud PAL builders struggled for six months to find
                  enough time and momentum to launch their MVP system.

                  Their opportunity arrived in the form of an
                  announcement from the VPs of product and design.
                  “They said every product in our org had to use Carbon
                  10 within the year, meaning everything had to be
                  updated to look and feel the same across all of Cloud.
                  We latched onto that and said, ‘Let’s not make this a one-
                  off redesign; let’s do this in a smart, sustainable way.’
                  That unlocked all the doors.”
18   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




         Tessa’s advice:
               “ Groundswell efforts can get you halfway there,
                 but it’s hard to reach true consistency without a
                 clear directive from the top. Without executive
                 support and a view into their strategic timelines
                 and goals, you end up aligning only the pieces
                 that were already flexible, and you lack the ability
                 to escalate those large, complex pieces where
                 inconsistency is most likely to hide."




          Scope expectations. Make sure the leader
          understands this is the MVP design system, just phase
          one of a game-changing product with no expiration date.
          You can promise the MVP will deliver enough functionality
          to test and prove effectiveness, but remind them it’s not a
          comprehensive solution—yet.

          Your message: “Like any new product endeavor, this is
          an experiment.”

          Don’t stop at one. Think of this as building an
          executive coalition, not winning a single supporter. Reach
          out to leaders from product, design, and business, so
          that support for the design system is built on more than
          one pillar.
19   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




          Nurture a developer fanbase.
          It may seem backward to prioritize developers as users of
          your fledgling design system. After all, the system’s coded side
          might not even be in scope yet. Here’s why you should look at
          developers first anyway:

     1. Developers are more expensive and more numerous. Save a
          designer one hour of work, and you’ve done well. Save 100
          developers one hour of work, and you’ve done miracles.
          Translation: Dollar sign success metrics to shore up your
          business case.

     2. They’re underserved. If your design crew has been around for
          a year or two, you probably have a few reusable components
          and guidelines in place. It’s far less likely that you have linked
          those same components to reusable code and guidelines for
          developers. But that is precisely what could transform their
          entire workflow.

     3. They’re disconnected. Developers often work on the other
          side of the globe (or just the building) from designers. A design
          system keeps everyone in lockstep, no matter their locations.

     4. They care about quality, speed, and efficiency. Happily,
          these are all outcomes a design system delivers.

     5. They’re invaluable partners. Developers can help you scale
          the design system to the hard reality of all your digital products
          – code. On top of that, they hold the keys to historical and
          current product architecture, important knowledge when
          you’re prioritizing and standardizing components.
20   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                      Collaboration tip


               InVision DSM offers a
               Storybook integration, linking
               design components to coded
               components in one shared
               hub for designer-developer
               truth.

               Components appear alongside the documentation,
               variations, and guidelines devs need. And with InVision
               Inspect, devs can easily spot existing components in
               specs, so they don’t waste time building something
               that already exists.

               Talk to an InVision expert about how DSM can help




               Let’s walk through some lightweight methods you can
               use to begin building a rabid fan base of developers
               before your MVP launches.

               Turn user research into guerilla marketing. Like any
               product, a design system requires research into user
               workflows and needs. You can double the benefits of
               your research by asking developers questions that
               build expectation and curiosity.
21   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                          Sample questions for
                          developers:
                          What types of things do you find yourself building
                          again and again?

                          Walk me through your workflow from the moment
                          specs arrive.

                          Where do you spend the most time? Which
                          meetings or messages feel redundant?

                          What’s the most frustrating part of the process?

                          How do you find the compliance guidelines,
                          assets, details you need?
22   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




          If you begin without preamble, this line of questioning
          inevitably causes developers to ask, “Where’s all this
          going?” And that’s when you can paint the vision of
          design system utopia.

          Give a teaser of the end product, not the MVP. It’s okay
          at this point to blast far beyond your initial design
          system’s scope. The goal is to help developers catch
          your vision for the future, when the fully-fledged design
          system has all the core components and guidelines they
          need to build products quickly, with superior quality and
          consistency, and pass QA in one go.

          This is also a good time to float ideas about how
          developers might contribute new changes and
          components as part of their natural workflow, and ask for
          early feedback on your governance plans.

          Once they’ve seen the light, it’s time to tell them about
          your MVP effort, and make your request…

          Ask new enthusiasts to be beta testers. Make their time
          commitment as light and asynchronous as you can to
          keep them coming back for more. No one knows it yet,
          but you’re building a user base of developers who will
          ultimately build half the system for you.
23   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




Recap: The people part
     Remember:
     Find influencers from as many teams as possible
     Entice them with success metrics they care about
     Use research to build your first fanbase
     Turn new enthusiasts into beta testers




          Success looks like this:
          At least one influential leader is excited to see what
          happens with your design system experiment. Also, a
          large cohort of developers know that an MVP is in
          motion. Some of them have joined the early-adopter
          club and are thrilled about how the future design
          system can make their work easier.
24   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                    Scott Arnold, Design System Lead
                    Motorola Solutions




                  Act as if there’s already a
     CASE STUDY
                  shared language.
                  When he began building the design system for Motorola
                  Solutions, Scott Arnold knew that bridging the gap
                  between design and development would be critical.

                  He decided to act as if there was already a shared
                  language for design and code. Now all he needed to do
                  was discover it. He took his engineering partner Nathan
                  Babcock on a research roadshow, visiting developer
                  workspaces from Krakow to Chicago.

                  Why a roadshow? “The message we were sending was,
                  ‘We’re coming to you. We’re gonna meet in your space,
                  respect your ethos, and understand your dynamics as
                  an org,’” Scott explained.

                  He and Nathan observed firsthand how developers were
                  already making their work reusable, and together they
                  began to find commonalities with existing design
                  components. As they dove into conversations,
                  developers latched onto the possibility of reducing
                  overhead and creating a flexible, shared language for
                  frontend product development. Many became avid
                  proponents for the design system cause.
25   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




         Scotts’s advice:
                “ Talking to devs on their turf helps you avoid looking
                  like the designer coming down from an ivory tower
                  to hand them a thing they don’t want. A design
                  system should feel like a spirit of collaboration,
                  rather than a product they have to use.”




The growth part:
Building an MVP contribution plan
          Eventually you’ll need to establish clear models for
          governance, adoption, and contribution. How do
          guidelines ladder downward from universal rules, to
          product-level decisions, to edge cases? Which teams
          and products should adopt the design system? You’ll
          begin to discover answers to these questions as you
          build your collection and conduct user research.

          But you don’t need to launch your MVP with a perfectly
          detailed plan, because even if you did, it would only
          continue to evolve.

          You do, however, need to dig into your user research and
          write your best answer (for now) to this question:
26   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




          How will people contribute changes or new
          components?
          One of the most common traps new design system
          builders fall into is that they hold onto responsibility too
          tightly. They become the bottleneck for everything. Soon
          they get overwhelmed, and the design system simply
          stops growing.

          A healthy contribution model keeps the design system
          growing even after you leave. It embeds design system
          growth into everyday workflows, meetings, and
          communication. Every team is building new components,
          helping to decide where and how they are used, and
          continuously giving insights back to the system.

          Your user research can inform an initial contribution plan.
          Be on the lookout for mentions of the following topics
          during your conversations:

          Meetings or review sessions that could include a design
          system moment each week

          Points in the developer workflow when components could
          be evaluated for possible addition to the system

          Shared communication tools that could be used for
          ongoing design system conversations

          You can also explore Nathan Curtis’s article about
          common contribution models to frame your ideas against
          best practices.
27   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                     Alexandra Clotfelter, Senior UI/UX Designer
                     Apartments.com



                    Keep contribution simple.
     CASE STUDY
                    Alexandra Clotfelter built the first Apartments.com
                    design system in InVision DSM, working with frontend
                    engineer Jake Anderson to add Storybook components.

                    When it was time to plan for design system
                    governance, Alexandra and Jake knew they needed to
                    keep their workload manageable and help teams self-
                    serve whenever possible.

                    Alexandra created a collaborator’s guide to explain
                    why, when, and how to add a new component to the
                    system. She shared decision flow charts that help
                    everyone determine if a new component is really the
                    right answer to their problem. If it is, the official
                    component request is made by filling out a simple
                    Google Form decorated with photos of brand
                    spokesperson Jeff Goldblum.


                  Alexandra’s advice:
                   “ It helps to go through the DSM Kickstart process.
                     The InVision consultant met with us for a series of
                     how-to sessions about best practices, governance,
                     everything we’d need to drive adoption.”
28   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM



          Don’t overbake your new model. People often get
          overwhelmed at the moment of launch, thinking they need
          an answer for every eventuality. Just remember the
          contribution plan is in an MVP state just like your new
          components, documentation, foundations, and every other
          part of the system.


Recap: Creating a contribution plan
     Remember:
     Don’t hold onto responsibility too tightly
     Use existing workflows and meetings to collect feedback
     Keep contribution simple (create a guide)




          Success looks like this:
          You get conversations and practices in place, and trust
          that you’re going to iterate.
29   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




After MVP launch
          Now is the moment to circle back to those executive sponsors
          you prepped and touch base with your new developer fanbase.
          The goal is to increase momentum and launch the next iteration at
          a broader scale than the first. Here’s your post-launch checklist:


          Circle back to your beta users. Find out how the new design
          system is starting to affect their workflows, how it can improve,
          and how they think it will change their work in the future. Collect
          numbers (time saved, eliminated meetings/tasks/emails) and
          sentiments (how much easier/less frustrating/more efficient the
          work felt).

          Show leaders the success metrics. Compile your
          observations, and project the broader success they can
          anticipate in the next bigger, better phase.

          Use the benchmarking guide to plan phase two. It provides
          outside context about where you stand, and how the system
          and its benefits could scale with the right investment.

          Tell leaders what you need. In order to make that next phase a
          reality, someone has to invest. Thankfully, you’ve already
          created a compelling business case for whatever you need,
          whether it’s more hands on deck, more time and autonomy to
          pursue the work, or louder support from the top for design
          system usage.

          Equip beta users as groundswell advocates. Arm them with
          the success metrics you’ve gathered, and show them the plan for
          phase two, so they can promote it to their own leaders.
30   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




          InVision DSM: Kickstart your design system.
          The DSM Kickstart program delivers expert design system
          consultants to your doorstep. They partner with you to set
          the system up for ongoing success. They walk you through
          the mechanics of auditing, collecting, documenting, and
          organizing libraries. But more importantly, they help you think
          through the people parts: user workflows, adoption,
          governance, and contribution models.

          Talk to an InVision expert about how DSM can help




Conclusion
          You started with small steps. Now continue.

          Like design, like product management, like
          development, a design system is never done. The work
          you did to launch your MVP and build your user base
          was the first of many steps.

          But the benefits also start now, and they’re only going to
          multiply from here. Keep going.
31   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                    Stacey Eddy, Senior UX Manager
                    RealSelf



                  One baby step each week.
     CASE STUDY
                  In July 2019, a group of passionate designers and
                  developers at RealSelf began to meet once a week.
                  Stacey Eddy explained, “The goal was to reimagine our
                  processes and standards, in an effort to launch more
                  consistent UI patterns.”

                  They had attempted to build a big, cohesive design
                  system before, but this time they took a different
                  approach. Their motto became, “Take one baby step
                  each week.”

                  The baby step approach gave them the mental space
                  to tackle a BHAG (big hairy audacious goal) one idea,
                  one thought, one moment at a time.

                  Slowly, meticulously, the team defined elements like
                  nomenclature standards, UI pattern standards, optimal
                  processes, communication best practices,
                  collaboration cadence… a never-ending list of ideas to
                  consider and debate.

                  “But after just ten months,” Stacey said, “We’ve
                  successfully aligned our developer Storybook
                  component library to our design Sketch pattern library.
32   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




                  We named our new RealSelf design system Radiance
                  because it exemplifies positivity, joy, and beauty, and
                  fits into our brand ethos perfectly.”

                  The newly aligned system created a master source of
                  truth, ended duplicative work in design/dev handoffs,
                  and enabled one seamless update in production,
                  across the site, for future UI iterations. “We calculate
                  Radiance saves us upwards of 1250 salaried hours
                  per year, by reducing frustration and rework
                  between groups. Plus the new modern UI feels clean
                  and fresh in that artistic sense, where it’s hard to
                  explain why you like something, but you just do.”



          Stacey’s advice:
                “ Find developers and designers who really dig UI,
                  people who care deeply about consistency,
                  simplicity, details, and beauty. They’ll be your
                  strategic partners and will help build the backbone
                  of your design system.”
33   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




     We're here for you.

     Whether it's your first attempt or your fiftieth
     iteration, InVision DSM can help you evolve your
     design system. Reach out any time and let our
     experts help you take your next step toward
     greater connection, greater efficiency, and greater
     consistency, across all your products and teams.




                                   Colors

                                   Text Styles

                                   Icons

                                   Components

                                       Buttons

                                       Alerts      Square button   Dial chart   Search

                                       Inputs




DSM
                                       Overlays


                                   Fonts
                                                          Aa                       Good
                                                                                   morning!




                                                                                Aa
                                                   Typeface        Profile      Message
34   INVISION’S GUIDE TO: BUILDING AN MVP DESIGN SYSTEM




Contributors
     “

                   Rebecca Kerr, Principal Conversation & Content Strategist
                   Exploring major product team transformations through
                   interviews, stories, and conversation.

                   Liz Steelman, Editor
                   Running InVision's blog Inside Design and helping the design
                   community tackle the new world of work.

                   Marci Pasenello, Director of Product
                   Product lead for InVision’s DSM who’s been experimenting
                   with the product development process for many years.

                   Zoë Adelman, Design System Consultant
                   Helping InVision customers create and evolve design
                   systems for scale.

                   Nick Hahn, Director, Design Systems Consultant
                   Excitedly helping teams evolve their designs systems and
                   bring forth the design system revolution as Director of Design
                   Systems Consulting.

                   Micky Teng, Director of Product Marketing
                   Marketing InVision DSM to help customers solve key design
                   system challenges.

                   Catriona Shedd, Director of Product Design
                   Design lead for InVision DSM and design system advocate
                   specializing in helping organizations improve design system
                   workflows to increase adoption, foster collaboration, and
                   elevate the efficacy of design systems at scale.

                   Ehud Halberstam, Product Manager
                   Working on InVision’s DSM and these days focusing on
                   developer-designer collaboration.
