Components as Data
How to define components independent of platforms to scale a system’s impact
      NATHAN CURTIS
      SEP 23, 2025

     11                                                                            Sh

How to define components independent of platforms to scale a
system’s impact




Nearly a decade ago, I wrote of my passions stirred by crafting tokens in design
systems. Those (sub?)atomic, minimal decisions were invigorating as we put structu
to visual choices as data to spread across a system. The muse of that story? The Pil
component.
This year, my team initiated a catalog-wide component-by-component refactor. Thi
time, again, we started with the Pill component. It’s as if the Pill offers us a cho
see the truth of our explicit decisions, or stay in an illusion that manual handoffs an
divergent tools carry our intentions into the work of others without failure. Ok, may
that’s a bit heavy handed. Enough with the heady metaphors.

Throughout the project, my role is to architect how we record component decisions
structured data independent of any platform, including Figma. I’m responsible for
ensuring consistent, scalable, and interoperable components that flow into and from
Figma and a pipeline of generated, cross-platform code. It’s delightfully complicate
Tokens feels quaint by comparison.

This slot prop. That container element. Both are familiar and feel simple. Yet
conveying visibility and children from one to the other, binding and unbinding
references across an array of variants? That hits different. Chats evoke nullability.
We’re overdosing on overloading. Figma’s threshold of what you can express and ho
you express it feels a barrier. Huh, hold up. What’s … nullability?

These days, I live much more in a text editor than a UI to plan, design, validate and
deliver components as data with AI at my side. In this post, I provide a glimpse of
components expressed as data and follow with why treating using data matters acro
a component’s life cycle in the era of AI.


Defining Components in Data
A component definition in data is a structured description of a UI component
expressed in a neutral format (like YAML or JSON) instead of hard-coded in design
tools or platform-specific code. Data breaks a component into parts like an anatomy
elements, props, styles, layout and how each varies when configurations change.

Anatomy
A component’s elements of various types (like container) organized into a hierarc
comprise its anatomy. Element concepts correspond to platform-specific constructs
such as a Figma FRAME layer or HTML DIV, SPAN, or SECTION.


  anatomy:
    root:
      type: container

    content:
      type: container
    leadingVisual:
      type: slot

    label:
      type: text




Props
Props to configure a component’s behavior and appearance and can be various data
types, such as booleans, strings, enums or slots.


  props:
    disabled:
      type: boolean
      default: false
    selected:

      type: boolean
      default: false
    state:
      type: string

      default: rest
      enum:
           - rest
           - hover

           - active
    leadingVisual:

      type: slot
      nullable: true

      oneOf:
         - icon

         - avatar

         - image
    label:

      type: string
      default: Label

    accessibilityLabel:

      type: string




Within a seemingly simple prop list, subtleties complicate conversations for design
expressing ideas in Figma.

    Aren’t disabled and selected technically enumerated VARIANT props with
    enumerated values for true and false? Yes.

    Is leadingVisual an INSTANCE_SWAP prop, and don’t we need another
    BOOLEAN prop to control its visibility? Yes (that’s how slots work today in Figma) a
    yes (the need for a BOOLEAN relates to the nullable property).

    How do we even represent accessibility labels? Expose a TEXT prop in the Props
    panel but not visually. There’s a trick for that.

Those conversations highlight the act of translating a component definition to a
platform, in this case Figma.

Styles
Styling is directly expressed in data in a human-readable way, too.


  default:

    elements:
      root:

        children:
           - content

        styles:

           height: foundations/size/8x
           backgroundColor: foundations/color/surface/primary

           borderColor: foundations/color/outline/primary
           borderWeight: foundations/size/0_25x

           verticalAlign: CENTER

           itemSpacing: 4
           paddingLeft: foundations/spacing/4x

           paddingRight: foundations/spacing/4x
           layoutDirection: HORIZONTAL

           layoutSizingHorizontal: HUG

           cornerRadius: foundations/shape/circle




Here, a root element (in Figma parlance, the COMPONENT or INSTANCE layer) has
range of default styles that mix raw values (4, HUG) and token references
(foundations/size/8x).

Yet, the element also omits presumed initial values (paddingTop: 0) and has
implied values too (layoutSizingVertical must be FIXED because height is
set). Even within styling alone, our team’s vocabulary must level up to describe
concepts we’ve implicitly used before but never named.

Variants
Things get more interesting as prop configurations apply. In this simple example, a
Pill's hover state changing the root’s background color.


  variants:

    - configuration:

        state: hover
      elements:

        root:
             styles:

               backgroundColor: foundations/color/interactive/hover




Yet, variants can get complicated quickly, with two or more props interacting in
configuration to impact many elements at a time.

Broad, Detailed and yet Incomplete
When put together, these models combine to form a fuller picture of a component, i
structure like:


  {component name}:

    anatomy:

      {element name}
      ...

    props:

      {property name}
      ...

    default:
      {element name}:

        styles:

             {style name}: {style value}
      ...

    variants:
      - configuration:

             {prop name}: {nondefault prop value}

             ...

        elements:
             {element name}:

               styles:

                   {style name}: {style value}

       ...
Simple components (Divider      👀 ) may only need 20–50 lines of data. On the other
hand, sophisticated core component like Alert, Text Input or Card often requi
500 lines or more.

Yet, even with over 1,000 lines of data, a picture could remain incomplete, lacking
considerations like:

    Binding configurations to an element’s values

    Motion and nontrivial Interaction that designers could express in Figma (using
    reactions) but rarely do.

    Accessibility that Figma lacks the ability to express in a structured way, althou
    plugins help with that.

    Non-visual configurations, such as an Alert's autohide duration or
    TextArea's maxRows that a designer could decide for handoff.

Varyingly, teams expand the shape of data to include more and more of these
considerations through a combination of Figma capabilities, plugins and team-spec
conventions. That said, teams continue to pair component data with a separate,
unstructured document to “handoff” a complete component definition. For now,
anyway.

A component catalog
Teams produce, store and version data for an entire component catalog in a databas
or (usually, in my experience) as a JSON or YAML file.


  components:

    alert:
      ...

    banner:

      ...

    breadcrumb:
      ...

    button:

      ...

    card:

      ...
    icon:

      ...

    iconButton:

      ...

    pill:
      ...

    tabs:

      ...

    textArea:

      ...
    textInput:

      ...




A core.yaml file for a design system’s core components may include 30–50
components (and their subcomponents, too) and be 10,000s lines long. Want to sto
a component per file? Sure, tool it up that way. Want to separate concerns of
component API from theming via tokens? Sure, as you will. You decide.


The Impact of Components as Data
Definining components in data form rather than passing unstructured artifacts
between collaborators unlocks many opportunities across a component’s life cycle.

Leverage components in LLMs
AI is everywhere, and it favors structured data. So express components that way. An
LLM can answer questions about how the component works, compare it to
implementations, and propose improvements via prompts.
Sure, you could leverage Figma’s Dev Mode MCP Server. But beware: that’s a
stochastic, incomplete, and imprecise component description biased towards one
platform (like React) and framework (like Tailwind). More formally approaching
component data makes component knowledge reusable, scalable, and consistently
interpretable across contexts.

Inspect component precision and quality
With countless design decisions woven into our Figma assets, it can be hard to wire
every detail without errors. Data exposes errant design decisions, making compone
easier to audit.


  variants:

    - configuration:

        state: hover

      elements:
        root:

          styles:

              backgroundColor: #045bbc   ## Seriously? Token please!




If I had a nickel for every time I detected a raw value in a stray variant when a token
needed (like the hover backgroundColor above), I’d be rich. Seeing components a
data make inspection straightforward and precise, raising the quality of both design
and code implementations.

Generate components across code platforms
Instead of hard-coded spec documents or screenshots, developers receive machine-
readable definitions. These definitions of structure, styles, and prop behaviors can b
used to scaffold code directly. This reduces or even eliminates back-and-forth to
ensures product matches design intent.
                Workflow translating Figma assets into data as machine-readable inputs to
                                             generate code



Generate Figma assets, too
And this isn’t just for code implementations. Teams generate Figma assets too. Soo
to be gone are the tedious, manual hours to produce countless variants.
                  Starting with data and treating Figma assets as output rather than input



Instead, Figma component assets can be automated from a component definition in
data that I plan in an hour and iterate with teammates for another. While we may go
back and forth between Figma and data to refine and experiment, designers are
increasingly focusing on architecture more and pointing and clicking and dragging
and setting values in the Figma UI less.

Generate examples and documentation
The same data can be used to automatically create component reference pages, usag
guidelines, and visual previews. This removes the need for manually maintaining
documentation that quickly falls out of sync. As components evolve, the
documentation updates with them, staying consistent and trustworthy.

Version component definitions over time
Component definitions as structured data be tracked in version control systems like
Git. This allows teams to see how components evolve, compare differences, and roll
back if necessary. It creates a durable record of a component’s lifecycle, just like oth
source code.

Analyze components across a catalog
With many components defined in the same format, you can prompt AI to find
patterns and gaps like:

   How and how often is the foundations/color/surface/secondary token
   used?
   Are enumerated options for state handled consistently?
   Are accessibilityLabels applied across all potential cases?

This enables data-driven insights into a system’s health and coverage.
As an architect at heart, I’m so excited that my work has evolved into increasingly
formal structures to describe UI components. This era of AI demands that we shift
and evolve how design systems work. It’s difficult to imagine returning to a time wh
I architected components only in a visual tool like Figma. Instead, my mind races
faster seeing those impassioned decisions as data, moving through the connections
create.



                                   Subscribe to Nathan Curtis
                                         Launched 9 months ago
                                Type your email...               Subscribe
                           By subscribing, you agree Substack's Terms of Use, and
                       acknowledge its Information Collection Notice and Privacy Policy.

                   11 Likes

Discussion about this post
 Comments Restacks

          Write a comment...
© 2026 Nathan Curtis · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection notice
        Substack is the home for great culture
