Animation in
Design Systems

1: The Case for Covering Animation 3

2: Defining What Your Animation Guidelines Should Cover 5

3: Defining Your Motion Principles   11

4: Defining Your Animation Building Blocks   17

5: Taking It Further            30




Copyright © 2019 Adobe Inc.
All rights reserved
Cover design: Ainsley Wagoner
Content and layout: Val Head
Editor: Patrick Faller




                                                  Animation in Design Systems 2
Animation in Design Systems:
Chapter 1




1          The Case for Covering
           Animation
           Design systems come in all shapes and sizes, but not all of them
           include guidelines for animation. Sure, some teams may have
           decided that motion wasn’t something their product needed
           guidance on, but I suspect that in many cases motion was left out
           because they weren’t sure what to include. In the past few years,
           I’ve talked with many teams and designers who tell me motion is
           something they want to address, but they just aren’t sure how to
           do it. If you’re in that boat, you’re in luck. This eBook breaks down
           everything to include when integrating animation into your design
           system, and how to successfully pull it off.




                                                                 Animation in Design Systems 3
So, why animation?
Animation is an important design tool for brand messaging. Just like typogra-
phy and color, the animation you use says something about your product and
its personality. So, when it’s not addressed in a design system, that area of UI
design tooling is left unaccounted for. When that happens, people following the
design system either do whatever they want with animation—which can lead
to a strange mish-mash of animation execution across the experience—or, they
just don’t use animation at all because they don’t have time to figure out all the
details themselves. Neither case is ideal.

Having a clear stance on how animation is used (or not used) in your design sys-
tem can help ensure your brand is using animation consistently and effectively
while also helping your team work faster.

Your design system’s stance on interface animation is part of its point of view;
it’s part of what makes it unique to your brand or product. There are some com-
mon best practices to consider for doing interface animation well, but just like
with other areas of design, there is also room to add your brand’s unique per-
sonality and perspective.

This ebook will walk you through a framework for creating a set of motion guide-
lines for your design system. It covers best practices, but will also help you
develop your system’s point of view around motion.




                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 4
Animation in Design Systems:
Chapter 2




2            Defining What Your
             Animation Guide-
             lines Should Cover
             The groundwork: Defining what
             you need to cover
             As Jina Anne says, “Design systems are for people”(bit.ly/peo-
             plesystems). A key step in creating a successful design system is
             to talk to the people who will actually be using it—this is crucial
             to make sure you’re building a design system that will be actually
             useful. This holds true for guidelines around creating animation
             too. The biggest thing you can gain from talking to the folks who


                                                                Animation in Design Systems 5
will be using your guidelines is to find out what those designers need and what
you should focus on. This helps you set an appropriate scope for what you need
to cover in your animation guidelines; no one wants to spend hours on extensive
guidelines that address things your team will never actually need. That wouldn’t
be any fun.

First, talk to people
Your team may not tell you about their animation pain points unprompted, but
that doesn’t mean they don’t have any. Set up some user interviews and ask
them where they’re getting stuck when it comes to animation. Ask them how, or
if, they use animation, and where animation falls in their design process. Ask
them what help they wish they had to better address the pain points they’re
encountering. Most importantly, listen to how they talk about using animation in
their work and what’s going well or not so well.

While every team is different, the issues and questions I’ve heard most often
from designers are concerns like: “How do I know an animation is good, or fits
with our brand?”, “How can I convey the animation details to our engineers
effectively?”, or “Our developers always say there’s no time to implement the
animations we design.”

You’ve probably guessed where I’m going with this, but all of these concerns are
things you can provide answers for in your motion guidelines. And you can use
the questions and pain points that come up most often to guide and focus your
motion guideline efforts.

Here are some helpful questions to kick-start your audience research sessions:
worksheet: research questions for motion guidelines (bit.ly/motionresearch-
questions).

Reference other design systems
Not every design system needs to be public, but it’s great that so many of them
are. They make for helpful resources when planning your own design system,


                                                                 Animation in Design Systems 6
and they can be useful research for your design system’s motion guidelines too
(in fact, I’ll be referencing a few of them in this book).

Using the motion sections of other design systems as a reference for your own
design system is very helpful, but I don’t recommend adopting another brand’s
motion guidelines wholesale in place of your own.

The most effective design systems contain a branded point of view unique to
them—things that make their design system more specific to the products it’s
for—along with common design best practices. Spend a little time researching
and reading through other systems’ motion guidelines, and you start to get a
feel for which parts are best practices and which parts are customized to that
brand or product’s point of view. (Or just read this book because we’ll do that
in Chapter 4 to give you a head start.) Then you can decide which best practices
you might also like to include in your guidelines, as well as where to customize
the guidelines for your product.

For example, using ease-ins for exits and ease-outs for entrances is a common
best practice for UI animation. But the exact ease-in or ease-out curve is usually
customized to a brand’s intended message and personality.

To quote Dan Mall (bit.ly/systempointofview):

      “This is the kind of thing a design system should have guidelines
      for: perspective, point of view, extending creative direction to every-
      one that decides to build something with the design system. That
      stuff should be baked in.”

I totally agree. Exploring the motion sections of other design systems can give
you a sense of what stance your design system will take on motion and how that
might look and feel.

The motion audit
It’s not uncommon to be starting a design system for an existing product, or one
that’s in the works. And in that case, you might already be using motion in your


                                                                    Animation in Design Systems 7
product; you can use that existing motion as a basis for your motion section.
The same goes for adding a motion section or additional clarification on motion
to an existing system. If you’re already using motion in some capacity, that is a
great source that can inform your work in creating guidelines.

A motion audit gives you a chance to look at all your animations as a whole, not
just individually. You can use the trends you identify in the audit to establish a
strong foundation for your future efforts.

There are a lot of different things you can uncover in a motion audit—everything
from gaining an understanding of animation performance and code,to identify-
ing missed opportunities or redundancies in animation—but I’m going to stick to
a motion audit’s use in identifying trends across a collection of animations used
in a given product for this discussion. (I’ve also written about motion audits in
my book Designing Interface Animation (bit.ly/bookDIA), if you’re looking to dig
into them even more than we cover here.)

Conducting a motion audit to quantify your ex-
isting animation efforts
First, establish the scope of where you’ll investigating your animations. If you
have multiple products, do one at a time as they may each have their own goals
and personalities that require separate consideration. Remember that the main
goal of the motion audit is to uncover the trends of how you’re currently using
motion in your product(s). That’s what will help you inform your motion guide-
lines as you create them.

Collect descriptions (and screen recordings or screenshots) of all the animation
currently used in your product.

Don’t forget any log-in only areas, sign-up sequences, and similar items. Just
taking notes is also an option here, but I find that having a visual representation
of each animation, like a video clip or .gif, that you can play back is helpful for
making sure everyone is on the same page when discussing them in more detail.


                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 8
The combination of written description and visuals tends to be the best founda-
tion for analysis and discussion in my experience.

You can capture the animations with QuickTime, Screenflow, or other screen
recording software, and collect them up as you go. I like using Keynote for my
motion audits but Google Docs or spreadsheets, also work well. Pick whichever
format is easiest for you to share with your team.

For each animation note the purpose of the animation, the properties it ani-
mates, a description of the effect, and the personality it conveys (the feel of the
animation).

Group the animations by their primary purpose.

This is the fun—and often most revealing—part. You might end up with groupings
like entrances and exits, state changes, content reveals, emphasis, and similar
things. Try to really consolidate your animations down to as few purpose-based
groups as logically possible. This makes it harder, but also helps to reveal the
core patterns in how you use animation. Everyone will have slightly different
groupings depending on how their product uses animation. The goal here is to
identify trends and patterns.

Evaluate the common traits in each grouping of the animations you’ve collected.
Note durations and easing curves used for the animations. Is there a common
easing curve that is used across most of the animations? Is it one that fits the
personality of your product? Are you using too many different easing curves arbi-
trarily? Could they be consolidated or streamlined for specific purpose instead of
being arbitrary?

You may find, for example, that the animations used for directing attention em-
ploy a more dramatic or eye-catching style of easing than your other animation
categories. Or you might find that there are specific sets of properties that are
animated in all your state change animations. These are the kinds of patterns
you’ll want to solidify in your motion guidelines. Here’s a starter spreadsheet
template you can use to get you started on your motion audit (bit.ly/motionau-


                                                                    Animation in Design Systems 9
ditsheet).

But what if the results of my motion audit
aren’t so great?
Sometimes when you take a step back and look at any specific aspect of
your product you realize that what’s currently there just isn’t working. In
those cases you absolutely can decide to start defining a whole new, and
more fitting, approach to animation for your product. Deciding to start
over with a whole new approach to animation might be a tougher sell, but
if it’s what needs to be done, go for it.

Next up
Now that you’ve got a good idea of where you’re starting from and which
issues your guidelines need to address, it’s time to start defining the
motion principles for your design system. That’s coming up in the next
chapter!




                                                           Animation in Design Systems 10
Animation in Design Systems:
Chapter 3




3            Defining Your Motion
             Principles
             Let’s start with the big picture thinking and work on defining your
             motion principles first. Motion principles are high-level guide-
             lines to measure design decisions around animation, as well as a
             place to state some specific definitions or values around anima-
             tion. Principles often focus on the ‘why’ of using animation within
             a particular design system and the UX-driven purpose animations
             serve. In many cases, design systems list these under the head-
             ing of Principles in their motion section.

             Why create motion principles?
             To make your animations work as a system, they all need to have
             some common ground. Establishing these patterns ensures your


                                                                Animation in Design Systems 11
animations share a common message not only with each other, but with the rest
of your design efforts. Defining what your design system wants to say with mo-
tion gives you the ‘why’ of your motion guidelines – the higher-level concepts
that represent the common traits you want all your animations to share.

These become a design system’s motion principles, which will act as a guide for
how motion is used within the system as a whole. They should cover, broadly,
both the purpose(s) for using animation and what sort of emotion these ani-
mations should convey. This is a great starting point for getting animation into
your design system because it gives the whole effort direction, and because it
requires both conversation and exploration, both of which are useful for getting
buy-in and building understanding. Once you define your motion principles, you
can use them to focus your animation efforts into a cohesive system and even to
evaluate future designs.

How to create your motion principles
Your motion principles can be modeled after your brand’s existing global design
principles, extrapolated from things like voice and tone guidelines, or even be
inferred from finding patterns in your product’s existing UI animations in a mo-
tion audit (as covered in the previous chapter). You can also use a combination
of all of the above if you have strong examples to work from in all those catego-
ries.

We’ve already talked about motion audits, but let’s look at some examples of
creating motion principles from the other two sources.

Translating global design principles to motion principles
The same principles that you use to guide the overall design of your product can
be tailored to apply to motion as well. For example, an overarching design prin-
ciple of:

      “We Simplify: Building something simple is anything but. So, we’re
      honest about our impact on people’s lives. We respect their time
      and spend every waking moment of our day making things sim-


                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 12
      pler.”

(Example taken from bit.ly/designprinciples2)

Could be translated to a motion principle of:

      “Simple: We use motion that is clear and to the point with simple,
      easy-to-follow actions that do not distract from the primary task.”

Sometimes your existing brand guidelines might already mention motion, in
which case you can use these as your motion principles, or as one of your mo-
tion principles for consistency. For example, a design principle like the below
easily translates to a motion principle:

      “Conversational: Our use of motion breathes life into our products,
      and allows us to communicate with users in easily understood
      ways.”

(From bit.ly/designprinciples1 )

Looking at brand descriptive documents like Voice and Tone guidelines or sim-
ilar may also help inform your brand’s motion principles. The content in those
may be a bit more removed from overall design principles, but you can connect
some dots between the overall personality and tone you want to convey and the
role motion should play in conveying that message.

Examples of motion principles in other design
systems
Now that you’ve got an idea of what your motion principles might be, let’s look
at some examples of motion principles in other design systems to get a better
idea of how these play out. Not every brand handles them the same way. Some
call out their motion principles specifically, while others fold them into their
design system overall.

Microsoft’s Fluent design system (bit.ly/fluentuwp) lists its motion principles
as being physical, functional, continuous, and contextual. They include a short


                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 13
description and illustration of each to explain how it applies to UI animation.




                       A segment of Fluent’s motion principles page.

Audi (bit.ly/audianimation) doesn’t have a separate principles section, but they
start off their animation section with a declaration of why they use animation.
This sets the stage for what sort of motion is to be used in the design system,
just like a principle would. Audi states:

      “We stand for dynamic premium mobility. As such, movements in
      the Audi look have a typically dynamic character.”

While developing the motion section for Spectrum (adobe.ly/spectrum), Ado-
be’s design system, the motion principles were modeled after the patterns of


                                                                       Animation in Design Systems 14
the other sections of the system. Within Spectrum, animation aims to be pur-
poseful, intuitive, and seamless.




                   Spectrum’s guiding motion principles for UI animation.

No matter how you decide to present them, your design system’s animation
principles can be used to establish the system’s expectations around anima-
tion. They can also be used to evaluate potential future UI animations for the
corresponding product(s). For example, if a designer following the Fluent design
system wanted to introduce a large bouncing animation into a component, there
could be discussion around whether that meets the motion principles (does it
fit the principles of functional and continuous?). Then a decision could be made
as to whether or not that particular animation warrants breaking from the stated
principles, or if the animation should be redesigned to fit the principles.

This helps to steer the design discussions away from the “do you like it?” or
personal opinion realm and gives a structure for evaluating animation in a more
pragmatic design-oriented way. This is my favorite advantage of establishing de-
clared motion principles; they make discussing meaningful animation so much
easier, even for people who don’t have a lot of animation experience.

For more motion principles references, check out Photon’s motion principles
(bit.ly/photonprinciples), Material Design motion principles (bit.ly/materialprin-
ciples), and Carbon’s motion principles (bit.ly/carbonmotion). It’s interesting to
compare and contrast these different design systems and how they present their
motion principles in the context of each system.


                                                                            Animation in Design Systems 15
What makes a good motion principle
As you can see from the examples above, there’s no one single way to do motion
principles. The number of principles you have and how you articulate them in
your design system can be customized for your team’s needs. That said, there
are some key things to look out for to make sure you’ve created solid motion
principles.

A strong motion principle should be something that it’s easy to say the opposite
of. For example, if one of your motion principles is “motion should not be dis-
tracting,” this principle holds up because it has an opposite: motion that dis-
tracts users from their current task.

Strong motion principles should also be objective. You’ll be using these to
guide what sort of animations your design system will have, and at times you
might even be using them to judge if a proposed new animated interaction fits
with your system’s principles. Having a principle like “all motion used should
be good motion” likely isn’t objective enough because it’s hard to define what
“good” means here. On the other hand, a principle that states something like
“animations support UX by helping users achieve their goals” is more objective.
It would be possible to have a conversation about, and come to a conclusion
on, whether or not a particular animated interaction helped users achieve their
goals in a particular flow.

Next up
Motion principles take care of the big picture definitions that you need to guide
your motion work, but we also need to define some of the more specific imple-
mentation details of how to pull those off for a more well-rounded set of guide-
lines. We’ll look at defining your animation building blocks next.




                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 16
Animation in Design Systems:
Chapter 4




4            Defining Your An-
             imation Building
             Blocks
             Motion principles are great for some high-level guidance, but
             without some details on exactly how to implement them, you’ll
             be missing the biggest time-saving benefits of including anima-
             tion in your design system. The implementation section (though
             rarely actually titled as such) answers many of the ‘how’ and
             ‘what’ questions your team might have around animation.

             The objective is to provide smart defaults for anyone following
             the design system. That way, instead of spending ages playing
             around with durations and easing for every animation, they can


                                                              Animation in Design Systems 17
use the smart defaults you’ve provided in the guidelines to accomplish tasks
faster. It’s a huge timesaver that also makes your UI animation much more con-
sistent across the board.

The implementation guidelines are where a lot of design systems diverge in their
approach. The amount of detail you include and the topics you cover in these
guidelines will depend on how big of a role animation plays in your design ef-
forts and your team’s exact needs. For example, Photon’s (bit.ly/photoneasing)
implementation section includes just one duration and one easing curve, while
Material Design’s (bit.ly/materialduration) section includes individual sections
on duration and easing as well as additional pages full of implementation de-
tails.

There’s no perfect length for a motion section; it’s more about covering the
details your team needs, rather than hitting a specific number of pages or rules.
Some of the animation building blocks to consider including in your motion
guidelines are:

• Animation durations
• Animatable properties
• Easing values used

These are the main ways we customize or style animation. Variations in the
properties, durations, and easings used for animation can drastically affect how
animations come across.

Let’s dig into each set of guidelines in more detail, and for each I’ll point out
some common best practices and where there’s room for your own customized
interpretation.



Durations, ranges, and rhythm
Duration describes how long animations should be, and when we’re talking
about UI animation, these values tend to be very short; it’s amazing how much
information we can convey in fractions of a second! This is a key aspect of ani-


                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 18
mation and every design system with motion guidelines covers it, but they do it
in a variety of ways.

Common best practices
Some of the best practices around duration that you’ll see addressed in most
motion guidelines include:

• Shorter durations should be used for simpler effects and relatively small-sized
animations (such as fades or color changes);

• Longer durations should be used for more complex effects and larger scale ani-
mations (such as page transitions or moving objects on and offscreen);

• Optimal timing can change based on viewport size.

While the specifics of each set of guidelines vary—sometimes even greatly—
you’ll see these common best practices in almost all of them. Different systems
have different definitions of exactly what ‘short’ or ‘long’ durations are, and go
into varying amounts of detail on the difference between the two. Also, while it’s
more of a design system thing than an animation best practice, providing design
tokens for your specified duration values is a useful thing to consider here as
well.

Implementation examples
Carbon (bit.ly/carbonmotion) provides a short table of ranges of duration values
based on the type of animation in question. Contrast that with Material Design
(bit.ly/materialduration), which breaks down recommendations on duration
speed in categories based on the complexity of the animation, as well as by the
relative area covered by the animation. Pluralsight (bit.ly/pluralsightmotion)
takes a different approach altogether and provides a set of keywords for differ-
ent durations paired with cute animals.




                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 19
Pluralsight’s design system lists durations, animals, and design tokens for each of its duration options.




      Carbon’s illustration and table sorted by interaction type give guidance on what durations
                               to use for UI animation within the system.



                                                                                     Animation in Design Systems 20
Easing values
Common best practices
My top advice for easing guidelines is to create your own customized curves and
not just use the CSS defaults for your animations. This is the most effective way
to build some consistent motion association for your brand and, as Sarah Dras-
ner puts it, build “motion equity.” (bit.ly/motionequity) You’ll be on solid ground
with just three curves: a custom ease-out, ease-in, and ease-in-out. And there’s
always the option to add more if needed.

Of course, there are times when it’s best to follow native operating system stan-
dards or defaults for certain OS specific components that are animated. But
there are also many cases where you’re creating custom components or interac-
tions, and that’s where your custom easing choices can shine.

Quick Tip: Penner easing equations as a starting point

If you’re totally stumped on where to start on easing curves, check out the Pen-
ner Easing equations on easings.net. These are designed to give you some nice
looking motion and are grouped in threes for easy use. They’re much more ex-
pressive and flexible than the CSS defaults. Using a set of these in your motion
guidelines can be a great place to start.




                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 21
              A few of the Penner Easing Equations illustrated as cubic-bezier curves.




Essential easing functions
I recommend defining the three core easing curves because that will cover all
your main easing needs for various animations:

Ease-in

This curve is the one that accelerates as it begins any movement. It reads well
for moving an object out of view.

Ease-out

This curve causes objects to decelerate before stopping, which makes for a more
natural way to bring objects into view.

Ease-in-out

As the name suggests, this curve combines the features of the first two and is


                                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 22
best for moving elements from point to point.

With these three custom curves, you’ll have almost all your animation needs
covered.




               Most motion guidelines include these three main types of curves.

Implementation examples
For Spectrum, three custom easing curves were created, along with recommen-
dations on which kinds of animation to use for each (these curves were devel-
oped by looking at existing animation and experimenting with some motion
studies). Carbon (bit.ly/carbonmotion) and Pluralsight (bit.ly/pluralsightmotion)
take a similar approach, designating three curves with suggested uses, as well
as designating one as the default curve to use when in doubt. In some cases,
you might only feel the need to have one custom easing curve, like Photon (bit.
ly/photoneasing) does, defining one curve for use across all animations.




                       One of Spectrum’s three custom easing curves.



                                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 23
                         Carbon’s standard easing curve details.

Along with the easing curves, it’s helpful to provide some supporting informa-
tion like associated design tokens, language-specific code (for CSS, JS, iOS,
and/or Android), or After Effects keyframe velocities depending on which tools
your team uses. This adds to the ease of use and helps make following smart
defaults in your motion guidelines the path of least resistance.

It’s also a big plus to include a visual illustration of the curve and interactive
examples. This helps you quickly demonstrate how the easing curves work and
what they look like. Never underestimate the power of showing instead of telling
(or, better yet, showing along with telling!)

Easing hierarchy
Including a hierarchy of easing is one way you can take things a little further
than the three core custom curves. This can be especially useful for brands that
use motion as a core method for conveying their design message. Just like with
type, you may want to determine a way to make certain animations stand out


                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 24
more than others. Animations that stand out more strongly can be used to em-
phasize a particular point or interaction. In these cases, structuring your easing
curves so that you have one that is more dramatic than others can be a useful
technique.

Different easings for different types of motion
When looking where you’re using UI animation, or where you plan to use UI
animation, you might notice that you have distinct contexts for your products
that require a different approach to animation. For example, your product itself
might be for productivity tasks like tracking financial transactions, but you also
use animation in your onboarding and marketing communications. Animation
that works well for the onboarding and marketing contexts, may not fit well with
the productivity context. In cases like this, it can be helpful to delineate different
motion guidelines for each of these main contexts.

IBM’s Carbon design system is a great example of this. In it, a distinction is
made between productive motion and expressive motion. Each category has its
own recommended easings and durations and Carbon also provides descrip-
tions of each context to be clear on when each applies.




                                                                     Animation in Design Systems 25
            Carbon’s description of the productive and expressive easing categories.


Defining your brand’s custom easing curves
with motion studies
Using the default easing curves for your platform or animation library is certain-
ly an option. But if you’re going to the trouble of setting up a design system,
having custom easing curve definitions that fit your brand personality will make
your system much more unique and impactful. Easing curves are a part of design
systems that have a lot of room for expressing your brand’s point of view. It’s a
best practice to use them, but the exact curves are up to you.

Setting up a motion study
The way I recommend doing this is to create a small collection of motion studies
to narrow down which types of easing seem to best emulate your brand per-
sonality in a simplified motion case. A motion study can be done in almost any
tool—CSS, JavaScript, After Effects, etc. All you need to get started are some sim-
ple shapes (I like to use circles) and a short list of brand attributes you want to
convey with your easing choices. Add some simple animations to your shapes—I
usually go with a fade, a scale, and some point-to-point movement. Then, ex-


                                                                               Animation in Design Systems 26
periment with the easings on those simple animations to find a custom set of
easing curves (ease-in, ease-out, ease-in-out) that have a vibe that matches your
brand attributes. Here’s a starter CodePen example (bit.ly/motionstudystarter)
you can use to make your own motion study.

Narrowing down your brand attributes

Every brand has words or traits it uses to describe itself, or a specific sort of per-
sonality it wishes to project. You can use these as a starting point to inform your
design system’s point of view on motion. You might find these in your branding
guidelines, experience pillars, design principles, or other similar materials. By
defining these brand attributes, your animations will say something, and your
work will be stronger since you’ll be planning intentionally.

Voice and tone guidelines can be an especially useful place to start for defin-
ing your brand’s personality. The same traits your brand is trying to convey with
written words can also be conveyed with animation. When both your content and
your design align, your messaging becomes that much stronger and clearer.

I find that a group of three attribute words is a good number to work with. This is
just the right amount to help focus your efforts without becoming overwhelmed
with possible options.

Let’s look at an example: Intuit has a nice and concise voice and tone documen-
tation (bit.ly/harmonyvoicetone) as part of their Harmony design system that I’ll
use as an example. In it, they outline three main traits for their voice and tone,
along with a list of supporting characteristics for each. That list of supporting
characteristics make a great basis for some brand-specific motion exploration.

Three of their supporting characteristics are “friendly, charming, and clear.” To
embody concepts like friendly and charming in motion, you could use easing
that employs some follow-through or overshoots to convey a heightened sense
of energy and friendly appearance. Even when this is applied to a simple circle,
you can start to see the friendly feel with just a touch of extra bounce, while the
straight line of the action keeps the motion clearly defined. This kind of motion


                                                                      Animation in Design Systems 27
can fit well with a moment when you want to say something like “Good for you!
You’ve balanced all of today’s transactions!”.

Motion studies are a great way to focus in on designing animation details in
a relatively short amount of time. Once you have some easing and animation
styles that work well in your motion study, you can apply them to prototypes for
further exploration to see how they look in context.

While some additional prototyping and exploring would still be necessary for
resting and refining the exact easing and timing standards, rooting your motion
guidelines in your brand’s personality and goals gives those guidelines con-
text and meaning. Instead of just using default easing keywords from CSS or an
animation library, you’ll be using easing that gives your design system a point of
view that will differentiate it from other projects.

Just like other design elements, like type and color, the meaning derived from
motion is somewhat contextual and subjective. There isn’t going to be one true,
correct answer for exactly how your brand should exist in motion, but there will
be many possible answers. You get to choose which combination of attributes is
right for your brand.

Bring the team in early
Don’t forget to include other key team members or colleagues in your animation
exploration along the way. You can show them prototypes based on your motion
studies during design critiques or design discussions to gather feedback and
iterate further. The more you involve others in the process, the more likely they
will buy-in to the final results; everyone likes to be heard, and your colleagues
have valuable insights into your brand and its personality too. Sharing your work
along the way is a win-win.



You’re of﻿f to a good start
At this point, you’re armed with animation principles plus your durations and
easing sections, and you have a solid set of motion guidelines in hand. That


                                                                  Animation in Design Systems 28
might be all you need for a version one of your motion guidelines, or if you’re
designing for a brand that doesn’t rely heavily on motion in its design. If you’re
pressed for time, establishing smart defaults for durations and easing will get
you far enough to see the benefits (and time savings) of establishing motion
guidelines and save your team time.

Quick Tip: Finding more examples

If you’re looking for additional motion guidelines for research, Adele (bit.ly/
adelelist) is a design system collection that lets you filter by topics like motion,
and styleguides.io is always a great resource for finding public design systems
too.

Next up
If you’re looking to add a little more to your animation guidelines, or thinking
ahead to what you might want to include in the next iteration, the next chapter
covers some other possible topics to address in your motion guidelines.




                                                                     Animation in Design Systems 29
Animation in Design Systems:
Chapter 5




  5
             Taking It Further
             If your design system uses motion extensively in your design
             style, it can be useful to include some more detailed direction
             on how to use motion in your guidelines. Not all design systems
             need to have all of these additional motion guidelines, and you
             might even find that there are other things specific to your prod-
             uct and your design system that you want to include. It all goes
             back to making guidelines that will help your team in their work.
             Here are a few options to start with.



             Named effects
             Providing a list of named effects or a library of animations to use
             can be a useful thing to have in your motion guidelines. Not all
             design systems’ motion guidelines have these; some opt to bake
             the animation guidelines into their components instead (or as


                                                                Animation in Design Systems 30
well), and some just don’t need this level of detail. This is one of those areas
where you can decide if including these will be useful for the folks using your
design system. And this is also something that you might decide to add in a ver-
sion two or beyond while iterating on your motion guidelines over time.

One word of caution on these though: more isn’t always better. It might look cool
to have a huge library of animations as part of your design system, but the more
effects you list, the more time and effort it will take to maintain those effects. To
avoid creating a huge time-sink for you and your team, I’d suggest making any
collection of named effects as small as you possibly can.

There tend to be two approaches to providing a library of effects in motion
guidelines. One approach is the way that Fluent (web) (bit.ly/fluentweb) does
it, providing a library of small animation effects (molecules of animation, if you
will) that can be used individually or composed together to build up more com-
plex animations. Each animation is named and variables are listed to invoke
each of them, along with a preview of what each looks like for easy recognition
and implementation (previous iterations of Lightning design system took a simi-
lar approach as well).




 Fluent’s basic animations for their web implementation serve as a library of named effects that can be
                                  easily accessed and implemented.




                                                                                    Animation in Design Systems 31
               The Lightning design system’s previous named animation library.

The other approach is to provide more comprehensive and purpose-driven ef-
fects, like Audi does for its show and hide, transform, shift, and superimposing
effects (bit.ly/auditransitions), and Fluent (Windows) does for its page transition
effects (bit.ly/uwppagetransitions). For either approach, providing the design
rationale and specific code implementations for each is useful.




                          One of Audi’s specified animation effects.




                                                                             Animation in Design Systems 32
Choreography of multiple animations
If you use a significant amount of complex animation, or have multiple instances
where multiple elements are in motion together, establishing guidelines around
choreography will be helpful. Choreography comes into play any time more than
one element or property is animating because that requires making decisions
around how those properties or elements will animate relative to each other.

Common best practices for choreography
Choreography guidelines can vary drastically from one product to the next de-
pending on how each brand is expressing its message in motion, but there are
also some good general best practices.

Entrances should inform exits

While there’s no rule saying all elements must leave the screen the same way
they came on, having a logical plan in place for how elements enter and exit
provides a solid foundation for your choreography. For example, if an element
appears into view by animating from the bottom, and then returns to the bot-
tom of the screen when it exits the view, that reinforces the spatial idea that the
element ‘lives’ just out of view below the screen. Using entrance and exits to
establish spatial orientation like that can make the overall experience feel more
consistent. Whatever your entrance and exit animations might be, having consis-
tent logic to how they work will go far in creating a UI that feels easy to navigate
around.

Sequencing

If you often have multiple elements moving at the same time in your effects or
components, having some guidelines on how these should be sequenced can
be helpful. For simple sequences it often makes sense for all the animating
properties to start and end together. But for more complex sequences—especial-
ly ones where some elements are leaving the view and others are entering—it
might be easier to follow the action if some animations happen before others


                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 33
start. Also, including some points around how to handle the continuity of ele-
ments that persist on screen throughout a transition can be very useful. The way
elements move in and out of view during times of transition can make the dif-
ference between a transition that’s confusing and one that leads the user’s eye
through in a logical way. Material Design’s motion section provides some good
examples of how to present sequencing guidelines and Carbon’s guidelines on
continuity provide a good reference as well.




                    A segment of Material Design’s sequencing guidelines.


Overlapping action looks more organic

Overlapping action (or staggers) is very much related to sequencing,and honest-
ly could fall under that same heading, but I wanted to call it out specifically. It’s
a great way to add more organic feel when you’re animating multiple objects at
once and can also help to reinforce the elements’ relationship to each other.


                                                                            Animation in Design Systems 34
Achieving overlapping action is pretty easy too. All you need to do is add a bit
of delay to each subsequent item in a group of animating items to offset their
action by a small amount. Instead of having a group of objects all wait for the
one before it to finish before it starts its motion, have each start slightly after the
other to overlap the action.

Including guidelines around when to use overlapping action and what amounts
of delay to use between items can help ensure the technique is used consistent-
ly throughout your product.




              A figurative timeline showing four objects’ motion offset slightly in time
                                to create some overlapping action.


Consider the path of motion

Elements moving from one place to another on screen can take a variety of ways
to get there. By default, most of our tools will move the object in a straight line,
but it is also possible to animate objects on curved or arched motion paths.

If you often have elements moving from place to place, defining guidelines for
these motion paths—if they should be straight lines, what shape of curve they
should follow, if motion paths may intersect, etc.—will have a significant impact
on how cohesive the overall experience feels.

In general, curved paths of motion tend to feel more organic and are visually
softer, while straight lines of motion tend to feel more efficient or urgent and
are visually more harsh. You’ll want to pick an approach that fits best with your


                                                                                    Animation in Design Systems 35
content and messaging.

IBM’s Carbon design system does a good job of noting this in the Paths section
of their motion guidelines where they say, “Elements in Carbon dance on the
grid. Motion paths trace lines along the grid which never run diagonally.”




           Carbon’s guidelines on motion paths in their motion choreography section.

As I mentioned above, choreography isn’t something that all design systems
cover, but it can be very useful for design systems that use a good bit of anima-
tion. Currently the best public design systems to use for reference on choreogra-
phy are Carbon and Material Design. Both address choreography differently for
their different needs, but you can learn a lot from reading each to help guide you
in creating your own custom choreography guidelines.

Motion and design tokens
Design tokens are a way to denote common design variables across platforms
in a central way. While not every design system uses them, if yours does, you’ll


                                                                              Animation in Design Systems 36
want to include motion-related tokens as well. As Jina Anne describes them:

      “With design tokens, you can capture low-level values and then use
      them to create the styles for your product or app. You can maintain
      a scalable and consistent visual system for UI development.”

This makes design tokens very useful for large or complex systems; they can be
used as a single source of truth for your animation building blocks.

The building blocks discussed in the last chapter are types of animation details
that lend themselves to being tokenized. For example, creating design tokens
for your durations and easing curve definitions would be very useful indeed. You
can find some examples of how motion details have been translated to design
tokens in the Carbon design system, as well as Lightning design system, and
others.




                        Lightning design system’s timing tokens.




                                                                   Animation in Design Systems 37
                       Carbon’s duration tokens for animation timing.

To learn more about design tokens and their role in design systems, check out
this course (bit.ly/jinadesigntokens) from Jina Anne. It’s a great starting point.



Wrapping up
I hope this book has helped show how including motion guidelines in your
design system can be incredibly useful, and I hope the chapters above have
helped to demystify the process of creating one as well. Addressing animation in
your design system can have a positive impact on the overall consistency of your
product’s design, and it doesn’t have to be overly time-consuming.

As you’re working on your motion guidelines, I encourage you to work in stages
instead of waiting for your motion guidelines to be perfect. Shipping a version
one with the intention of adding to and updating is much easier on you, the
person or people authoring the guidelines, and can help you make sure you’re
creating guidelines that are useful.

As hard as it can be to share something that you know is missing some detail,
it can be very useful to ship a version one of your motion guidelines and then
talk to your team about them. This helps you see how the first version of the


                                                                        Animation in Design Systems 38
guidelines has helped them and which pain points are still a factor. This itera-
tive approach can go far towards making your guidelines cover the most relevant
topics, and lets you adapt them to your team’s needs. Both are good for having a
system that’s useful, while also avoiding unnecessary extra effort.

Good luck with all your motion guideline efforts. I’m excited to see how you in-
corporate motion into your design system and I’d love to see what you come up
with. Find me on Twitter (twitter.com/vlh) and show me what you’ve created!




                                                                 Animation in Design Systems 39
